Rev and Dear Friends: - 
	The last time I wrote you was during the pendency of your difficulties with the Missourians. you are aware that at that time I held the office of "Brigadier General of the Invincible Dragoons" of this state and proffered you my entire energies for your deliverance from a ruthless and savage, tho. cowardly foe; but the Lord came to your rescue and saved you with a powerful arm. I am happy to find that you are now in a civilized land, and in the enjoyment of peace, and happiness. Some months ago I resigned my office with an intention of removing to your town, and joining your people; but hitherto I have been prevented: I hope however to remove to Commerce and unite with your church next spring. I believe I should be much happier with you. I have many things to communicate which I would prefer doing orally, and I propose to meet you in Springfield on the first monday in Dec. next as I shall be there at that time on state and United states' business. 
If I remove to Commerce I expect to follow my profession, and to that end I enclose you a slip from the "Louisville Journal" to give you an idea of my professional standing. 
	On the first of this month I was appointed to the office of "Quarter-Master General of the State of Illinois," which office I expect to hold for some years, I hope you have been well, 
In haste. Write me immediately. 
	Yours Respectfully 
	J. C. Bennett 

To the 
	Rev Sidney Rigdon and 
	"Joseph Smith Jr. 
	Respected Friends: - 
	I wrote you a few days ago from this place but my great desire to be with you and your people prompts me to write again at this time; and I hope it will not be considered obtrusive by friends whom I have always so highly esteemed as yourselves. 
At the last district and circuit Court of the United States, holden at Springfield in June last I had the honor of being on the grand Inquest of the United States for the District of Illinois, and hoped to have seen you there; but was quite disappointed. I attended the meeting of your people opposite Mr Lowry's Hotel but did not make myself known as I had no personal acquaintance in the Congregation. 
	It would be my deliberate advice to you to concentrate all of your church at one point - If Hancock County with Commerce for its commercial Emporium is to be that point, well, - fix upon it and let us co-operate with a general concerted action. You can rely upon me in any event. I am with you in Spirit, and will be in person as soon as circumstances permit, and immediately if it is your desire. Wealth is no material object with me; I desire to be happy and am fully satisfied that I can enjoy myself better with your people with my present views and feelings than with any other. I hope that time will soon come when your people will become my people and your God my God, At the time of your peril and bitter persecution in Missouri you are aware I proffered you my utmost energies, and had not the conflict have terminated so speedily I should have been with you then. God be thanked for your rescue from the hands of a savage but cowardly, foe! I do not expect to resign my office of "Quarter Master General of the State of Illinois," in the event of my removal to Commerce, unless you advise otherwise: I shall likewise expect to practice my profession; but at the same time your people shall have all the benifit of my speaking powers and my untiring energies in behalf of the good and holy faith. In necissariis unitas, in non necessariis libertas, in omnibus charitas, shall be my motto, with the suaviter in modo fortiter in re. Be so good as to inform me circumstantially of the population of Commerce and Hancock County, the face of the country, climate, soil, health etc etc How many of your people are concentrated there? Please to write me in full immediately. Louisvill paper will accompany this - please inquire for it. 
	With sentiments of profound respect and esteem, suffer me to subscribe myself - 
	Yours Respectfully 
	J. C. Bennett. 

	To 
	Rev, Sidney Rigdon 
	Rev. Joseph Smith Jr. 
	Respected Friends: - 
	It is with difficulty that I can forgo the felicitous of an immediate immersion into the true faith of your beloved people. I have written you several letters and forwarded you several newspapers to Commerce which I hope will be duly receivd as they contain some matters of importance. Is Nauvoo? or Commerce? to be the general point of concentration for the Mormon people? for at that point I desire to locate, and ever remain. 
	My anxiety to be with is daily increasing, and I shall wind up my professional business immediately, and proceed to your blissful abode, if you think it best. Look at all my letters and papers and write me forth with. You are aware that at the time of your most bitter persecution, I was with you in feeling and proffered you my military knowledge and prowess. My faith is still strong - I believe the God of the whole earth will avenge your wrongs in time as well as in eternity, O. my friends! go on and prosper; and may the God of all grace save you with an everlasting salvation. 
	Yours respectfully 
	J. C. Bennett 

Rev Joseph Smith Jr and 
" Sidney Rigdon 
	Respected Friends 
	I have written you several communications to Commerce and Nauvoo supposing they were different places but a brother to a Lady in your community now in this place informs me that they are one and the same. I have received no reply to my letters and attribute the delay to a press of business or professional absence. I have come to the conclusion to join your people immediately and take up my abode with you. 
Let us adopt as our motto - Sicut patribus sit Deus nobis - (As God was with our fathers, so may he be with us) - and adopt the means to the end and the victory is ours - The winged warrior of the air will not cease to be our proud emblem of liberty, and the dogs of war will be forever chained. I shall be with you in about two weeks and shall devote my time and energies to the advancement of the cause of truth and virtue and the advocacy of the Holy religion which you have so nobly defended, and so honorably sustained. My love to all the bretheren. With sentiments of paternal regard 
	Yours, Respectfully 
	J. C. Bennett 

	Inaugural Address. 
Gentleman of the City Council; 
	Alderman and Councillors: - 
	Having been elected to the Mayoralty of this city by the unanimous suffrages of all parties and interests, I now enter upon the duties devolving upon me as your Chief Magistrate under a deep sense of the responsibilities of the station. - I trust that the confidence reposed in me, by my fellow-citizens, has not been misplaced, and for the honor conferred they will accept my warmest sentiments of gratitude. By the munificence and wise legislation of noble, high-minded, and patriotic statesmen, and the grace of God, we have been blessed with one of the most liberal corporate acts ever granted by a legislative assembly. As the presiding officer of the law making department of the municipal government, it will be expected that I communicate to you from time to time, by oral or written messages, for your deliberative consideration and action, such matters as may suggest themselves to me in relation to the public weal; and upon this occasion I beg leave to present the following as matters of paramount importance. 
	The 21st Sec. of the addenda to the 13th Sec. of the City Charter concedes to you plenary power "to tax, restrain, prohibit and suppress, tippling-houses, dram-shops," etc. etc., and I now recommend, in the strongest possible terms, that you take prompt, strong and decisive measures to "prohibit and suppress" all such establishments. It is true you have the power "to tax," or license and tolerate, them, and thus add to the city finances; but I consider it much better to raise revenue by an ad valorem tax on the property of sober men, than by licensing dram-shops, or taxing the signs of the inebriated worshippers at the shrine of Bacchus. The revels of bacchanalians in the house of blasphemy and noise will always prove a disgrace to a moral people. Public sentiment will do much to suppress the vice of intemperance, and its concomitant evil results: but ample experience has incontrovertibly proven that it cannot do all - the law must be brought to the rescue, and an effective prohibitory ordinance enacted. This cannot be done at a better time than at the present. Let us commence correctly, and the great work of reform, at least so far as our peaceful city is concerned, can be summarily consummated. It would be difficult to calculate the vast amount of evil and crime that would be prevented, and the great good that would accrue to the public at large by fostering the cause of temperance; but suffice it to say that the one would be commensurate to the other. - No sales of spirituous liquors whatever, in a less quantity than a quart, except in cases of sickness on the recommendation of a physician or surgeon duly accredited by the Chancellor and Regents of the University, should be tolerated. The liberty of selling the intoxicating cup is a false liberty - it enslaves, degrades, destroys and wretchedness and want are attendant on every step, - its touch, like that of the poison Upas, is DEATH. Liberty to do good should be cheerfully and freely accorded to every man; but liberty to do evil, which is licentiousness, should be peremptorily prohibited. The public good imperiously demands it - and the cause of humanity pleads for help. The protecting aegis of the corporation should be thrown around every moral, and religious institution of the day, which is in any way calculated to ennoble, or ameliorate the condition of the human family. 
	The immediate organization of the University, as contemplated in the 24th Sec. of the act incorporating our city, cannot be too forcibly impressed upon you at this time. - As all matters in relation to mental culture, and public instruction, from common schools up to the highest branches of a full collegiate course in the Arts, Sciences, and Learned Professions, will devolve upon the Chancellor and Regents of the University, they should be speedily elected, and instructed to perfect their plan, and enter upon its execution with as little delay as possible. The wheels of education should never be clogged, or retrograde, but roll progressively from the Alpha to the Omega of a most perfect, liberal, and thorough course of university attainments. The following observations in relation to false education, from Alexander's Messenger, so perfectly accords with my feelings and views on this highly important subject, that I cannot do better than incorporate them in this message. 
	Among the changes for the worse, which the world has witnessed within the last century, we include that specious, superficial, incomplete way of doing certain things which were formerly thought to be deserving of care, labor and attention. It would seem that appearance is now considered of more moment than reality. The modern mode of education is an example in point. Children are so instructed as to acquire a smattering of every thing; and, as a matter of consequence, they know nothing properly. Seminaries and academies deal out their moral and natural philosophy, their geometry, trigonometry, and astronomy, their chemistry, botany, and mineralogy, until the mind of the pupil becomes a chaos; and, like the stomach when it is overloaded with a variety of food, it digests nothing, but converts the superabundant nutriment to poison. This mode of education answers one purpose: - it enables people to seem learned; and seemingly, by a great many, is thought all-sufficient. Thus we are schooled in quackery, and are early taught to regard showy and superficial attainments as most desirable. Every boarding school Miss is a Plato in petticoats, without an ounce of that genuine knowledge, that true philosophy, which would enable her to be useful in the world, and to escape those perils with which she must necessarily be encompassed. Young people are taught to use a variety of hard terms, which they understand but imperfectly; - to repeat lessons which they are unable to apply; - to astonish their grand-mothers with a display of their parrot-like acquisitions; - but their mental energies are clogged and fortified with a variety of learned lumber, most of which is discarded from the brain long before its possessor knows how to use it. This is the quackery of education. 
	The effects of the erring system are not easily obliterated. The habit of using words without thought, sticks to the unfortunate student through life, and should he ever learn to think, he cannot express his ideas without the most tedious and perplexing verbosity. This is, more or less, the fault of every writer in the nineteenth century. The sense is encumbered with sound. The scribbler appears to imagine that if he puts a sufficient number of words together he has done his part; and, alas! how many books are written on this principle. Thus literature, and even science itself, is overloaded with froth and flummery. Verbalizing has become fashionable and indispensable, and one line from an ancient author will furnish the materials for a modern treatise. 
	Our University should be a "utilitarian" institution - and competent, industrious, teachers, and professors, should be immediately elected for the several departments. "Knowledge is power." - foster education and we are forever free! Nothing can be done which is more certainly calculated to perpetuate the free institutions of our common country, for which our progenitors "fought and bled, and died," than the general diffusion of useful knowledge amongst the people. Education should always be of a purely practical character, for such, and such alone, is calculated to perfect the happiness, and prosperity, of our fellow-citizens - ignorance, impudence, and false knowledge, are equally detestable, - shame and confusion follow in their train. As you now possess the power, afford the most ample facilities to the Regents to make their plan complete; and thus enable them to set a glorious example to the world at large. The most liberal policy should attend the organization of the University, and equal honors and privileges should be extended to all classes of the community. 
	In order to carry out the provisions of the 25th Sec. of the act incorporating our city, I would recommend the immediate organization of the Legion. Comprising, as it does the entire military power of our city, with a provision allowing any citizen of Hancock county to unite by voluntary enrollment, early facilities should be afforded the Court Martial for perfecting their plan of drill, rules, and regulations. Nothing is more necessary to the preservation of order, and the supremacy of the laws, than the perfect organization of our military forces, under a uniform and rigid discipline, and approved judicious drill; and to this end I desire to see all the departments, and cohorts of the Legion put in immediate requisition. The Legion should be all powerful, panopled with justice and equity, to consummate the designs of its projectors - at all times ready, as minute men, to serve the state in such way and manner as may, from time to time, be pointed out by the Governor. You have long sought an opportunity of showing your attachment to the state government of Illinois - it is now afforded: the Legion should maintain the constitution and the laws, and be ready at all times for the public defence. The winged warrior of the air perches upon the pole of American liberty, and the beast that has the temerity to ruffle her feathers should be made to feel the power of her talons; and until she ceases to be our proud national emblem we should not cease to show our attachment to Illinois. Should the tocsin of alarm ever be sounded, and the Legion called to the tented field by our Executive, I hope to see it able, under one of the proudest mottos that ever blazed upon a warrior's shield - Sicut Patribus sit Deus nobis: as God was with our fathers, so may he be with us - to fight the battles of our country, as victors, and as freemen: the juice of the uva, or the spirit of insubordination should never enter our camp, - but we should stand, ever stand, as a united people - ONE AND INDIVISIBLE. 
	I would earnestly recommend the construction of a wing-dam in the Mississippi, at the mouth of the ravine at or near the head of Main street, and the excavation of a SHIP-CA-NAL from that point to a point terminating in a grand reservoir on the bank of said river, east of the foot of said street, a distance of about two miles. This would afford, at the various outlets, the most ample water power for propelling any amount of machinery for mill and manufacturing purposes, so essentially necessary to the building up of a great commercial city in the heart of one of the most productive and delightful countries on earth. I would advise that an agent be immediately appointed on behalf of the city corporation, to negotiate with eastern capitalists for the completion of this great work, on the most advantageous terms, even to the conveyance of the privilege for a term of years. This work finished, and the future greatness of this city is placed upon an imperishable basis. In addition to the great advantages that will otherwise accrue to the city and country by the construction of this noble work, it would afford the best harbor for the steam-boats, for winter quarters, on this magnificent stream. 
	The public health requires that the low lands, bordering on the Mississippi, should be immediately drained, and the entire timber removed. This can and will be one of the most healthy cities in the west, provided you take prompt and decisive action in the premises. A Board of Health should be appointed and vested with the usual powers and prerogatives. 
	The Governor, Council of Revision, and Legislature of Illinois, should be held in everlasting remembrance by our people - they burst the chains of slavery and proclaimed us forever free! A vote of thanks, couched in the strongest language possible, should be tendered them in our corporate capacity; and, when this is done, Quincy, our first noble city of refuge, when we came from the slaughter in Missouri with our garments stained with blood, should not be forgotten. 
	As the Chief Magistrate of your city I am determined to execute all state laws, and city ordinances passed in pursuance to law, to the very letter, should it require the strong arm of military power to enable me to do so. As an officer I know no man; the peaceful unoffending citizen shall be protected in the full exercise of all his civil, political, and religious rights, and the guilty violator of law shall be punished, without respect to persons. 
	All of which is respectfully submitted, 
	JOHN C. BENNETT. 

Esteemed Friend: - 
	Yours of the 7th Inst. has been received, and I proceed to reply, without undue emotion, or perturbation. You ask "When will these things cease to be, and the Constitution and the Laws again bear rule?" I reply - once that noble bird of Jove, our grand national emblem, soared aloft, bearing in her proud beak the words "Liberty and Law," and that man that had the temerity to ruffle her feathers was made to feel the power of her talons; but a wily archer came, and with his venomed arrow dipped in Upas' richest sap, shot the flowing label from the Eagle's bill - it fell inverted, and the bird was sick, and is, - the label soon was trampled in the dust - the eagle bound and caged. The picture is now before you in bold relief. "What think you should be done?" The master spirits of the age must rise and break the cage, restore the label, unbind the bird, and let her tower unfettered in the air - then will the nation have repose, and the present minions of power hide their faces in the dust. Many of Missouri's noble sons detest her acts of cruelty and crime, and gladly would they wipe them from the escutcheon of her fame, and will; yes, they will lend a helping hand - and all must help, for the time is at hand, - and if man, rebellious, cowardly, faltering man, will not do the work, the thunderings of Sinai will wind up the scene - the blood of the murdered Mormons cries aloud for help, and the restoration of the inheritances of the saints; and God has heard the cry - and if the moral battle must be fought, and the victory won, he who answers by fire will cause sword and flame to do their office, and again make the Constitution and the Laws paramount to every other consideration - and I swear by the Lord God of Israel, that the sword shall not depart from my thigh, nor the buckler from my arm, until the trust is consummated, and the hydra-headed, fiery dragon slain. This done, the proud southron will no longer boast of ill-gotten gain, or wash his hands in the blood of the innocent, or immure the freemen of the prairie State within Missouri's sullied, poisoned, deathly prison walls. Let us always take refuge under the broad folds of the Constitution and the Laws, and fear no danger, for the day of vengence will assuredly come when the Omnipotent hand of the Great God will effect the restitution of the trophies of the brigand victories of Missouri, and again place the saints on high. 
	Yours, Respectfully, 
	JOHN C. BENNETT.
