To the Editor of the Journal: 
	I was in your city a few days since for the purpose of taking legal advice in relation to the contemplated Bankruptcy of Joseph Smith, the notorious Mormon Prophet and swindler; - and procuring the commissions for the officers of the line and the new appointees to brevets in the staff of the Nauvoo Legion, for distribution prior to the general parade on the 4th of July next; but had no time to prepare an article for the press, as I was bound to be in Nauvoo on the 26th instant. But I now write you from the Mormon Zion, the city of the Saints, where I am threatened with death by the holy Joe, and his Danite band of murderers, in case I dare make any disclosures in relation to the conduct of that polluted mass of corruption, iniquity and fraud, - that King of Impostors, - the holy and immaculate Joe Smith. I shall, however, expose him, and if I fall by the ruthless hands of such foul assassins, let my blood by avenged by the friends of God and my country. Remember he has threatened me with DEATH in propria persona, and if I should be immolated to satiate his hellish malice, let his blood atone for it - put his "head in a charger." But I fear him not - he is a most consummate blackguard, and dastardly coward. He is ready at all times to assassinate a man of equal corporeal strength, or to inflict corporeal punishment on a man of feeble frame; but he fears his equals, and dreads his superiors. Joe Smith stands indicted for murder, treason, burglary, and arson, in Missouri, and he defies the laws and the legally constituted authorities to deliver him over for trial. - What a horrible state of society when men fear to execute the laws! - especially in relation to the most foul impostor that ever disgraced the earth? If Governor Reynolds, of Missouri, will make another demand for Joe Smith alone, disconnected with any other person, - for there are thousands of innocent, unoffending, good and holy people among the Mormons, who never ought to suffer, and never shall by my hands, or through my instrumentality - men, women and children who have suffered more than death for the infamous prophet) - and if Governor Carlin will place the writ in my hands, I will deliver him up to justice, or die in the attempt, unless restrained by the constituted civil authority. Thousands and tens of thousands are ready to obey the call, and enforce the laws, and the holy Joe shall tremble at the sight of gathering hosts. Let the watchword pass with the celerity of lightning, and let the citizen soldier be ready. - I will lead you on to victory, and lay the rebels low. The Constitution and the laws shall triumph; and misrule, violence, and oppression wither like a blighted flower. Let not an Executive whom he has vilified and abused, as he has Governor Carlin, both in the private circle and public congregation, fear or neglect to do his duty in this case, and deliver up this noted refugee, charged with the blackest crimes known to the laws, who now boldly stalks abroad in our public ways. If Joe is innocent, let him be acquitted; but if he is guilty, let his life atone for it. I regard him as a foul and polluted murderer, and on the forthcoming of the State writ, Joe shall be delivered up. 
	Now, remember that if I should be missing, Joe Smith, either by himself or his Danite band, will be the murderer. Illinoians, then let my blood be avenged! They seek my life by day and by night - look well to the issue! I am in the infamous impostor's city; but I fear him not, neither do I regard his idolatrous god. He believes not in the God of Heaven, and I fear no other. 
	I now defy him, and all his holy hosts. I dare him to personal violence. There are eyes that see that he knows not of, and ears to hear that he understands not. 
	Now, Governor, do your duty. And citizens of Illinois, be in readiness to sustain your laws. I furnished the State arms to the Nauvoo Legion on a legal requisition, and on a legal requisition they shall be delivered up. The public arms are in a bad condition and suffering material injury, and they had better be placed in the hands of more deserving men, for the State is sustaining a great loss. If the Governor wishes them for other troops, they are at his service. I derived the comand of the Nauvoo Legion, and as Major General I have it, and are liable to trial only on an order from the Governor, detailing a general Court Martial of General officers from the other divisions of the State - no brevet officer can effect me. 
	It is true that I had Joe Smith appointed, or elected Lieutenant General, as a mere play thing, knowing that there was no such officer contemplated by the Constitution; but, it answers Joe well enough, as he does not know enough of military matters to tell the difference between a Corporal and a General, - so, Lieutenant General is as good as any other ral to Joe. In his public speeches he says - 
	Joe is a great man of the kind - but God will damn the kind - for, if the devil don't get Joe Smith, there is no use for any devil. But to the damnable iniquity of this base impostor, - and to begin - 
	On the 17th of May, 1842, I received from the President and Clerk of the Mormon Church a certificate, of which the following is an exact copy, to wit: - 

	Now it happens that John E. Page was in Pittsburgh, William Smith in Pennsylvania, and Lyman Wight in Tennessee, at the above date; - this is the way the Holy Joe does business. On Saturday, the 18th of June, I was excommunicated from this holy sect. Now look at the dates; - on the 18th day of June I was excommunicated, and on the 17th of May previous I with drew from this noble band of brothers. The withdrawal of fellowship was DATED BACK in order to have a pretext for my expulsion, and to destroy my influence before I could do any injury to the GREAT PROPHET, and was presented to Orson Pratt, one of the twelve, for his signature some days after I showed him my official withdrawal, and Mr. Pratt refused to sign it. Mr. Pratt is a gentleman of undoubted veracity, and I am willing to abide his testimony. Call upon him. Mr. Editor, what think you of these extraordinary papers? - what was all this for? I will tell you - it was to destroy my influence, before I should expose Joe's attempts at seduction. - Many of his followers will swear to anything that he desires them to do, and think they are doing God's service, even when they KNOW if to be false. And to begin. 
	Joseph Smith, the great Mormon seducer, one who has seduced not only hundreds of single and married females, but more than the great Solomon, attempted to seduce Miss Nancy Rigdon, the eldest single daughter of Sidney Rigdon, to submit to his hellish purposes. and become one of his clandestine wives under the new dispensation. Call upon Miss Rigdon, who repulsed him with commendable firmness, and I will abide her testimony - call, likewise, upon Gen. George W. Robinson, and Col. F. M. Higbee, to state what they know upon this subject. Gen. Robinson and Col. Higbee, can tell some astounding facts in relation to this matter. Joe approached Miss Rigdon - as he said. Joe attacked Mr. Rigdon, Gen. Robinson, Col. Higbee and myself, in order to destroy the influence of ALL of us to prevent the exposition of this case. - But it is all true, and the legal evidence shall be forthcoming. Call upon Miss Martha Brotherton, of Warsaw, and see what she will say as to the base attempt at seduction in her own case. She can tell a tale of woe, that would make humanity shudder. Call upon Miss Mitchell, of this city, one of the most chaste and spotless females in the west, and see what she knows as to the PROPHET'S SECRET WIVES. Hundreds of cases can be instanced, and if the Danites do not murder me, you shall hear a tale of pollution and sorrow. Joe's licentiousness is unparalleled in the annals of time. I have the evidence, and it shall come: and no attacks on me to divert the public mind from himself, and his iniquity shall avail him. My purpose is fixed, and the world shall know who the great impostor is. - Time will not permit my going into further detail in this letter; but an abused and insulted public shall know all about it. 
	Joe's extensive land frauds in Iowa and Illinois, will soon come to light. I will save his Eastern creditors some hundreds of thousands of dollars, by exposing these frauds in the face of open day - both by the legal records of the country, and oral testimony. All is in readiness. 
	I will expose his actings and doings in Nauvoo Lodge, U. D., when none but the Mormon brethren were present: - that he (Joe Smith) and five others, were entered, passed, and raised, before the Lodge was installed by the Grand Master: and that they all passed through a second time afterwards, with the exception of one, who is now abroad: and many other like irregularities, and departures from the ancient landmarks. He has, likewise, established a new lodge of his own, by inspiration, called "ORDER," in which there are many curious things, and relative to which I have much to say hereafter. The following is a part of the obligation - 
	The attacks on me in the "Wasp" are all for public effect, and to divert the public eye from Joe's infamous conduct. My affidavit as taken before Esq. Wells, and my statements before the City Council, in relation to the holy Joe, were made under DURESSE - my life was threatened unless I submitted to the requisitions of Joe. I then preferred the course I took to DEATH, as I knew the public were not apprized of the facts, and I could have been murdered and no person would have been the wiser: but the public are now apprized of the matter, and I am ready and willing to die in exposing this impious man, and the people will avenge my blood. I never feared death, but I chose not to die before I rendered God and the people signal service in bringing to light the hidden things of darkness. But more of this hereafter. 
	The whole city is now in an uproar in relation to the doctrine of consecration as taught on yesterday - The People are ALL required to come forward and consecrate ALL their property to the LORD by placing it at the APOSTLE'S FEET, or in the hands of JOE SMITH!!!!! There is much flouncing on this subject, and what will be the issue God only knows. I will give you some important facts in my next. 
	The life of Captain Amos Davis, with some others, has been threatened as well as my own: and I hereby put the public on the look-out. I will write you as time permits. In haste, 
	Yours, Respectfully. 
	JOHN C. BENNETT. 

To the Editor of the Journal, 
	I am now in this place, in order to attend to some of my official duties, as Master in Chancery; and having some leisure time, I shall proceed with my history of Joe Smith and his Saints - It is my determination to state facts, and such facts as will arouse the public indignation, if there is yet virtue and courage left in man - for we are exhorted to be enterprising and courageous, - but the beast and false prophet (Joe Smith,) shall tremble in the days of his captivity like an aspen leaf in the wilderness. The - as Joe is called, must be washed in the laver of the law until his polluted carcase, and corrupt soul, shall be purified by fire. And to begin: 
	On the 17th day of May, zzzad 1842, Joe Smith requested to see me alone in the preparation room of the Nauvoo Lodge, U. D., on some important business. We entered, and he locked the door, put the key in his pocket, and drew a pistol on me and said - I replied that he had better procure some other person or persons to do so, as there were a plenty who could do it in truth. - said he, - I remarked that it was a hard case, and that I would leave peaceably, and without any public exposition, if he would excuse me. He replied - I remarked that I would, under the circumstances, but that it was hard to take the advantage of an unarmed man. - said he, - He then unlocked the door - we went into the room below, and I gave the affidavit as subscribed before Alderman Wells, (who was then doing business in the lower room,) and made the statement required before the City Council on the 19th. I was not aware until Sunday last that any other person was apprized of the fact of the threat of murder, - but on that day Colonel Francis M. Higbee told me in the presence of General George W. Robinson, that if it came to the worst, he was in possession of a secret that would open the eyes of the people, and that he would file his affidavit if necessary; but he would not tell me what the secret was - General Robinson, however, informed me afterwards that it was a knowledge of Joe's threats of murder. On the 30th of June, 1842, I called upon Colonel Higbee for his affidavit, which was taken before General Hiram Kimball, an Alderman of the city, and is in the following words, to wit: - 

	My affidavit, and statement, under DURESSE, were published in the NAUVOO WASP of the 25th of June, 1842. Is it not high time that this band of murderers should be made to feel the just penalty of the law It is certainly a most alarming stale of society when men are above the reach of law, and free to perpetrate the blackest crimes of cruelty and oppression. All this in a land of boasted freedom! Great God! where is the arm of power? Where is liberty, and the rights of man? Arise, ye officers of justice, and assert the majesty of your insulted laws. Let the sound of the clarion give the alarm! and horsemen and chariots will tell the story, until one stone shall not be left upon another, or a vestige of iniquity and crime to pollute the goodly land. 
	In 1841, Joe Smith predicted or prophecied, in a public congregation in Nauvoo, that Lilburn W. Boggs, ex-Governor of Missouri, should die by violent hands within one year. From one to two months prior to the attempted assassination of Gov. Boggs, Mr. zzzo P. Rockwell left Nauvoo for parts unknown to the citizens at large. I was then on terms of close intimacy with Joe Smith, and asked him where Rockwell had gone? - said he, - Rockwell returned to Nauvoo the day before the report of the assassination reached there, and the Nauvoo Wasp remarked - Rockwell remarked to a person now in Nauvoo, and whose name I forbear to mention for the present, from motives of prudence and safety to the person, but which shall be forthcoming in due time, that he had "been all over Upper Missouri, and all about where Boggs lives," and this was communicated to me by that person before I withdrew from the church, and we had considerable conversation upon that daring act. Rockwell is a Danite. Joe's public memory is very treacherous on this subject. I presume; but his private memory is so good that he has a guard around his house every night, with the State cannon and a full supply of small arms, for the protection of his person against any attempted arrest. - He, likewise, requested me to write to Gov. Carlin for his protection, which I agreed to do, and accordingly did, asking the Governor whether he would be protected from any illegal act of violence, - to which the Governor replied that ALL citizens should receive equal protection, but that he knew of no privileged man or order of men, and that the dignity of the State should be preserved according to the strict letter of the constitution and the laws. This letter I refused to show to Joe, as open hostilities had commenced between us, and he accordingly detailed a Court Martial to try me for treason against the citizens of the State of Illinois!!! This Court I regarded as illegal, and treated it with that utter contempt which such an assemblage of inferior officers will always receive at my hands. Now I call upon Colonel Francis M. Higbee to come out and tell what he told General Robinson and myself in relation to the MURDER of a certain prisoner in Missouri. Col. Higbee, do not fear to tell the dreadful story - tell exactly how Joe had the murder done up, and what part he ORDERED you to take in the affair, but which you did NOT take. Tell it as Robinson knows it, and as you told me, and DO NOT FEAR. Gov. Reynolds will make another demand, and Joe shall be delivered over. I will visit Missouri and tell the dreadful story. Let the call be made, and the laws shall be executed. 
	My late visit to Springfield. On my arrival in Carthage I found, as all the citizens well know, that I was followed by Mr. zzzo P. Rockwell, a Danite, who on his arrival late in the night, made strict enquiries as to where I was - his ostensible business was to put a letter in the post office!! but judge ye the real design. I was prepared for the gentleman and he approached me not; but another swift rider, Captain John D. Parker, another Danite, followed me to Springfield to carry a letter to Dr. Helm: but he had another object, and you may well suppose what it was. I told Captain Parker that I was aware of his object, but I feared him not. At Virginia, in Cass County, on my return, Parker met me again, and I called the attention of the stage driver to him, who, thereupon, put two additional balls into his pistol, and then informed me he was ready for him or any other person having the same object in view. Many of the Danites have been around me in Nauvoo for the purpose of secret murder in order to save the arch-impostor Joe from public infamy. 
	Mrs. Sarah M. Pratt, wife of Professor Orson Pratt, of the University of the city of Nauvoo. Joe Smith stated to me at an early day in the history of that city, that he intended to make that amiable and accomplished lady one of his spiritual wives, for the Lord had given her to him, and he requested me to assist him in consummating his hellish purposes, bull told him that I would not do it - that she had been much neglected and abused by the church during the absence of her husband in Europe, and that if the Lord had given her to him he must attend to it himself. I will do it, said he, for there is no harm in it if her husband should never find it out. I called upon Mrs. Pratt and told her that Joe contemplated an attack on her virtue, in the name of the Lord, and that she must prepare to repulse him in so infamous an assault. She replied, - Well, I replied, you will see unless he changes his mind: accordingly in a few days Joe proposed to me to go to Ramus with him. I consented to go, and we started from his house about 4 o'clock P. M. rode into the prairie a few miles, and returned to the house of Captain John T. Barnett, in Nauvoo, about dusk, where we put up the horse with Barnett's permission. He, Joe, pretended we were looking for thieves. We then proceeded to the house where Mrs. Pratt resided, and Joe commenced discourse as follows: - She replied: - Joe could not come it! He then went off to see Miss - at the house of Mrs. Sherman. He remained with her an hour or two and then returned to Barnett's, harnessed our horse, started for Ramus, and arrived at Carthage at early breakfast. We then went to Ramus, and returned to Carthage that night, and put up at the house of Esq. Comer. Next day we returned to Nauvoo. I called upon Mrs. Pratt and asked her what she thought of Joseph? She replied, - Mrs. Pratt in a conversation with Mrs. Goddard. wife of Stephen H. Goddard, said, - Three times afterwards he tried to convince Mrs. Pratt of the propriety of his doctrine, and she at last told him: - Joe replied, - said she, - says Joe, - and turning to me he said, - I will, I replied. So I procured the lamb from Captain John T. Burnett, and it was slain by Lieutenant Stephen H. Goddard, and I offered the kidneys and entrails in sacrifice for Joe, as he desired; and Joe said, - Times passed on in apparent friendship until Joe grossly insulted Mrs. Pratt again, after her husband had returned home, by approaching and kissing her. This highly offended her, and she told Mr. Pratt, who was much enraged and went and told Joe never to offer an insult of the like again. - Joe, replied, - Joe you can't come it! Mrs. Pratt is far above your foul and polluted breath, your calumny and detraction. I now appeal to Mrs. Pratt if this is not true to the very letter. Just speak out boldly. 
	Miss Nancy Rigdon, daughter of Sidney Rigdon, Esq. Joe Smith said to me last summer, - I replied, "I cannot agree to it. Elder Rigdon is one of my best friends and his family are now pure and spotless, and it would be a great pity to approach the truly virtuous." But, says Joe, - It may be so, said I, but you must see her yourself. I cannot approach her on a subject of that kind. Then I supposed the matter had ended; but at he funeral of Mr. Ephraim R. Marks, Mrs. Hyde told Miss Rigdon, that Joseph desired to see her at the printing office, where Mrs. Hyde resides, on special business. She said she would go, and accordingly did, but Joe was busily engaged at his store: Dr. Willard Richards, however, one of the holy twelve Mormon apostles, whom I had long suspected as being up to his eyes in the business with Joe, came in and said, - This she agreed to do; but she communicated the matter to Colonel Francis M. Higbee, who was addressing her, and asked his advice as to the second visit. I then came to a knowledge of the facts, and went immediately to Joe, and said to him, "Joseph, you are a Master Mason, and Nancy is a Master Mason's daughter, so stay your hand, or you will get into trouble." Joe replied, - "No," said I, "l am not your enemy, but you had better stop where you are." I then went to Col. Higbee and told him Joe's designs, and requested him to go immediately and see Miss Rigdon, and tell her the infernal plot - that Joe would approach her in the name of the Lord, by revelation, etc. and to put her on her guard, but advise her to go and see for herself what Joe would do. He did so, and she went down. Joe was there, and took her into a private room, LOCKED THE DOOR, and commenced by telling her that he had long loved her, and had asked the Lord for her, and that it was his holy will that he should have her - he told her that it would not prevent her from marrying any other person - that he had the blessings of Jacob granted to him and that all was right; he desired to kiss her, and wished her to kiss him, but Joe couldn't come it. She said she would alarm the neighbors if he did not open the door, and let her out - he did so, and requested Mrs. Hyde to explain matters to her. Joe swore her to eternal secrecy. Mrs. Hyde told her that these things looked strange to her at first, but she would become more reconciled on mature reflection. Miss Rigdon replied, - Joe agreed to write her, and did so in a few days through Dr. Richards. That letter is now safe in the hands of her friends. I have seen it, so has her father, and various other persons. - On Tuesday last Joe came up to Mr. Rigdon's, accompanied by his High Priest, Geo. Miller, of sable sister notoriety, for a witness, and by boisterous words and violent gestures tried to deny the attempted seduction and alarm the girl: but she told him he was a cursed liar, and that he could not face her to it. Joe then made a full acknowledgment of the whole affair. All the family, and many other persons were present. The holy George observed, - Now call upon Miss Rigdon for the truth of the foregoing. Joe, did you offer another lamb in sacrifice as a burnt-sin-offering on an altar of twelve stones? If not, look out for the destroying angel, for he will surely get you. 
	Now I call upon Miss Martha Brotherton of Warsaw, to come out and tell boldly the base attempt on her virtue when in Nauvoo - how she was locked up and the proposals that were made to her. I saw her taken to the accursed room, and now let her come out boldly and tell the corruptions of these holy men. The public requires it - justice and honor require it. 
	I will now append my own affidavit: 

	It is quite likely that many of the persons whom I have named in my affidavit, and many others whom I may hereafter name, will flounder, but the truth shall now come, and stand in bold relief before the world. Most of the Mormons will swear to anything that Joe tells them to, and the public must look for it. - All, therefore, who remain after these astounding disclosures, must be branded with infamy, as they will undoubtedly be partakers in their adulteries, thefts, robberies, and murders. 
	Mrs. Melissa Schindle, wife of Col. George Schindle. - I now proceed to give the affidavit of Mrs. Schindle which is in the following words, to wit: 

	Joe, did you offer another sacrifice? If not, the destroying angel will come - but as you succeeded with Mrs. Fuller that night, as you told me, that may take off the curse. - Joe says - 
 	I must now bring this short letter to a close, but will write again in a few days. 
	Yours, Respectfully, 
	JOHN C. BENNETT. 

To the Editor of the Journal: 
	In your paper of the 1st inst., you call upon me, and others, to make some disclosures in relation to Joe Smith, the arch-impostor, to which I now proceed to respond. I have already written you two letters on the subject; one of which I presume you have received before this, and the other will reach you in a few days. I will now give you some singular facts. 
	JOE’S BANKRUPT APPLICATION. - The Bankrupt law, section 2, provides that no conveyances of property shall be made in contemplation of bankruptcy, subsequent to the 1st of January, 1841; and an Act concerning Religious Societies, under which the Mormon Church was incorporated, provides for the appointment of TRUSTEES, not a SOLE TRUSTEE IN TRUST, who are authorised "to purchase a quantity of land not exceeding five acres," etc. etc. See act approved Feb. 6, 1842. 

	If an official certificate is required, call upon Chauncey Robinson, Esq., the Recorder of Hancock, and he will certify that these are correct extracts from the county records. - There are various other matters of record that could be made to operate against this king of swindlers and impostors, Joe Smith; but I presume that the foregoing will be sufficient to give him a comfortable home in the State penitentiary, at Alton, for some years to come, if Missouri does not get him first. 
	If oral testimony is required, call upon Gen. George W. Robinson, Col. Francis M. Higbee, and others, who are acquainted with the transactions. Call out these witnesses in relation to the SHAM sales of valuable property made to Willard Richards, N. R. Whitney, and others, by Joe, in order to prepare for the bankruptcy. The Hotchkiss Purchase, CALLED church property - but which is not paid for - was given in by Joe in his schedule as his own individual property, which it undoubtedly was; but the White Purchase (S. E. fractional quarter of section 2, 6. N. 9 W.) WHICH IS PAID FOR, was deeded to Thompson, Joe’s Clerk, who had no property, and from Thompson to Emma Smith, (Joe’s wife,) and from Joseph Smith and wife to Joseph Smith, SOLE TRUSTEE IN TRUST, etc. I know call upon General Robinson and Colonel Higbee, to come out in Sangamo Journal, over their own names, and tell what they know of Joe’s swindling operations. Come out, gentleman, boldly; the public good requires it at your hands. - Forbearance is no longer a virtue in this business. I call, likewise, upon the Messrs. Kilbourns, of Montrose, Iowa, to come out in the Journal and tell what they know of Joe’s swindling in Iowa lands, and of the thefts and robberies committed by his Danite Band; and I hope they will respond to the call without delay. Let no man fear to speak out boldly. Remember that the White Purchase was CALLED church property, but it was and is Joe’s own individual estate. He said in a public congregation in Nauvoo, a few weeks ago, - Can this swindler take the benefit of the bankrupt law! Never! No, never!! Let a prosecution be at once instituted against his holiness, and let the law have its just operations ONCE. 
	JOE'S HOLY LODGE CALLED "ORDER." I alluded to this holy institution in one of my former letters. Joe says he has given them the Master's word by revelation. ln the preparation they are stripped naked so as to see if they will pass the holy examination as required in Deuteronomy, 23d chapter and 1st verse. They are then clothed upon and the precious ointment poured upon the head, running down upon the beard, and the skirts of the garment. The ungodly oath, a part of which I gave you, is then administered in order to prepare them for the SPIRITUAL WIFE operations, and save Joe from public disgrace and infamy. SOME of them, however, are not in the SECRETS. - They are taken in as a blind in order to deceive the people. If they are charged with iniquity, they say, - No, gentlemen, but the - is not explained to THEM. Joe says, - Rigdon and Pratt are not yet members however, and I hope they never will be; and Marks has a very strong squinting at apostacy. If Sidney Rigdon will suffer a base attempt on his daughter's chastity; Orson Pratt another on his wife; and William Marks will look - on at these disclosures, and say nothing, I am much mistaken in the men. The public look to Rigdon, Pratt and Marks, and other kindred spirits, to speak at this eventful crisis - they have seen and heard, and FELT in their own families, the corruptions of this - fiend of hell. Come out, gentlemen, and renounce and denounce Joseph Smith, that soul damning impostor. Come out NOW, or bow down and lick the dust, worship at his shrine, and chain your fate to the wheels of damnation, and the car of iniquity. The issue is made up, - it cannot be averted; and I pray God that the "bitter cup may not pass." You ALL, with Francis M. Higbee, George W. Robinson, Chauncey L. Higbee, Henry Marks, and hundreds of other, KNOW that I have told the unvarnished truth, and the people at large will believe me, - yes, they will believe me, though I have not yet told HALF the DREADFUL STORY!! - Gen. Robinson writes me under date of July 3d - Joe says to the people, - Yes, and Pratt, and Rigdon, and Robinson, and the Higbees, and the Marks, and hundreds of others KNOW you to be a LIAR, Joe, - and Pratt and others have told you so in the face of open day. YOU LIED in the name of the Lord!!! Remember that, you base blasphemer, - remember that, and weep! - Look at your black catalogue of crimes - your seductions and attempted seductions in the name of your Maker - your thefts - your robberies - and your murders! Why, Satan blushes to behold so corrupt and loathsome a mortal, - one whose daring deeds of crime so far surpass hell's darkest counsels, as to him the sable Prince in impenetrable darkness forever! 
	NAUVOO LODGE U. D. The original records show that Joseph Smith, Job Snyder, Brigham Young, Peter Haws, Willard Richards, and one other, I think Adara Lyman, were initiated, passed, and raised, before the installation of the Lodge, and all but one have passed through since, - Joe by the hands of the Grand Muster Jonas, and the remainder by other brethren. That record was sealed up, and a new one commenced, - the second was sealed up, and a third commenced, - and then a new record book procured and such parts copied as they were willing should go to the Grand Lodge, and such only. 
	Let the original book be produced and all these facts will appear - I stand pledged that they shall appear. A part of the original record is in my hand writing, as all know; now if they will produce a record that has any of my hand writing in it, (for the new one has nothing but my name,) I will show all the facts, unless the leaves have been torn out. Mr. Stoddard was suspended for blackballing Mr. Sessions, but it was not put to record. The charges of H. G. Sherwood and Samuel H. Smith, against Robert D. Foster, during the trial of which Foster received such a severe rebuke by Joe, never appeared upon record, and Joe said, as the case was likely to effect his brother Samuel, - Is this not so? I appeal to George W. Robinson, Francis M. Higbee, and Hiram Kimball, all Master Masons. These are only some of the actings and doings of the Nauvoo Lodge, U. D. under the Supervision of Joe, and his servile priest, George Miller - that little creature that does Joe s dirty work. - Let the Grand Lodge look to this. Why does not Nauvoo Lodge, U. D. deal with Joe for the attempted seduction of Nancy Rigdon, a Master Mason's daughter, and for the actual seduction of several Master Masons' wives, sisters and daughters? - Simply because they say Joe is a Prophet, and the Lord's annointed must not be harmed, the Lord will not suffer his annointed to fall! O, tempora! O, mores! 
	I am now going over to Missouri to have Joe taken to justice; and then I am going to New York to publish a book, to be called "The History of the Saints," in which I shall tell most of the actings and doings at Nauvoo for the last two years, of most of their great men, and some of their great women too; so look out for breakers. We shall have full disclosures if the Danites don't catch me - they are after me like prowling wolve, by Joe's special orders. In haste. Yours, Respectfully, JOHN C. BENNETT 

To the Editors of the Louisville Journal. 
	As I promised to lay before you some of the strong points of objection to "the gathering of the saints," or the congregating of the Mormons at one point or general head-quarters, I now proceed to redeem the pledge. 
	Nine hundred and ninety-nine thousandths of all the faithful of the Mormon church regard Joe Smith as God’s vicegerent on earth, and obey him accordingly; and all the Danites of the church (and by-the- bye, they compose no very inconsiderable portion of their mighty hosts) are sworn to receive him as the supreme head of the church, and to obey him as supreme God. If, therefore, any State officer, in the administration of public justice, happens to give offense to his Holiness the prophet, it becomes the will of God, as spoken by the mouth of his prophet, that that functionary should DIE; and his followers, the faithful saints, immediately set about the work of assassination, in obedience, as they suppose, to their Divine Master and, for which noble deed, they expect to receive an excellent and superior glory in the celestial kingdom!! It does not require Argus eyes to see the incalculable mischief growing out of such a state of society; and an intelligent community must look on with awful forebodings and fearful anticipations, where such a state of things is suffered. Great God! Only look at the horrible picture! The lives of thousands of human beings depending upon the whim or caprice of the most corrupt, heaven-daring, and black hearted impostor that ever disgraced the earth. The whole community are in the most imminent danger, from the common citizen to the highest public functionary, unless they chain their fate to the car of Mormon despotism. 
	Where a large community, like the Mormons, are under the absolute dictation of vacillating and capricious tyrant like Joe Smith, who acts not under the influence of reason, but is wholly governed by impulses and selfish motives, political demagogues will become fawning sycophants, and the best interests of the country will be sacrificed to the ambitious views of an ancient or modern prophet - a Mahomet, or a Smith! This state of things is fraught with the most fearful consequences: the subversion of government; the fall of kingdoms and empires; the destruction of nations, by the shedding of rivers of human blood; and, where consequences of a less serious nature accrue, it destroys natural affection, hardens the heart against the better feelings of our nature, and produces a state of savage barbarity, which causes a civilized man to shudder, and from which he turns with loathsome disgust. 
	The standard of morality and Christian excellence with them is quite unstable. Joe Smith has but to speak the word, and it becomes the law which they delight to obey - because it comes from God! Acts, therefore, which but yesterday we considered the most immoral, wicked and devilish, to-day are the most moral, and right and God-like, because God, who makes right, has so declared it by the mouth of his anointed Prophet! 
	Joe Smith designs to abolish all human laws, and establish a Theocracy, in in which the word of God, as spoken by his (Joe’s) mouth, shall be the only law; and he now orders that his followers shall only obey such human laws as they are compelled to do, and declares that the time is at hand when all human institutions shall be abrogated! Joe’s will is to become the law of right, and his power is to execute it. 
	Under the new order of things, all the property of the saints, with their wives and little ones, are to be consecrated to Joe, to subserve his purposes and gratify his passions! These are only some of the reasons 
which I shall hereafter, when time permits, consider more detail; and, in the meantime, I should like your opinion on a matter of so much importance to all of our fellow - citizens. 
	With high consideration of respect and esteem, suffer me to subscribe myself yours, respectfully, JOHN C. BENNETT. 

To the Editor of the Journal: 
	As I have a little time to appropriate, I proceed to transcribe and forward you an exact copy of Joe Smith’s letter to Miss Nancy Rigdon per William Richard, one of the Holy Mormon Apostles, alluded to in one of my former communications, and which is in the words following, to wit: - 
	Thus reads the Prophet Joe’s love letter to Miss Rigdon. To understand it I refer you to the spiritual wife doctrine heretofore alluded to, and to Miss Brotherton’s letter. - You will see that ALL things that God gives and sanctions by special revelation THROUGH THE HOLYJOE, is LAWFUL and RIGHT, and Joe knows it to be so because God TOLD HIM so!! I told you before that the great Solomon was a novice in these matters when compared to Joe. Peruse the letter carefully, examine all its bearings and allusions, and compare it with former disclosures, and you will see that it is pregnant with the "spiritual doctrine" taught by Joe to his cloistered, chambered, and cyprian maids and madams in his female LODGE or Mormon inquisition. My last letter to the editors of the Louisville Journal will explain this in part, and the "History of the Saints’ in full. 
	- Yours, Respectfully, 
	John C. Bennett. 

	I HAVE been induced to prepare and publish the following work by a desire to expose the enormous iniquities which have been perpetrated by one of the grossest and most infamous impostors that ever appeared upon the face of the earth, and by many of his minions, under the name and garb of Religion, and professedly by the direct will and command of Almighty God. 
	My facilities for doing what I have undertaken are great as could possibly be desired. For eighteen months I was living with the Mormons at their chief city, and possessed the confidence of the Prophet himself, and of his councillors. I was, indeed, from an early period, one of their First Presidents, who, after the Prophet, are the rulers of the Church. This gave me access to all their secret lodges and societies, and enabled me to become perfectly familiar with the doings and designs of the whole Church. 
	This book contains a full and accurate account of my motives for joining them, and of the discoveries which I made among them, illustrated and confirmed by a variety of documents, both public and private. 
	I have not, I can fearlessly assert, exaggerated the facts I have here presented to the world, though I have, as they richly deserve, shown them up with an unsparing hand. 
	I have been obliged to insert much personal matter, and many testimonials respecting myself, in consequence of the violent and scurrilous attacks made upon me through the public papers by the Impostor and his emissaries. This, I trust, the reader will not impute to egotism, but to its real cause - a desire to strengthen my statements against the opposition which I am certain they will encounter. 
	In conclusion, I would commend to the candid and earnest attention of every patriotic and religious person the statement I have made; and, with the assurance that I have told the truth, and nothing but the truth, though by no means the whole truth, entreat them to use all their influence and exertions to arrest and quell the Mormon Monster in his career of imposture, iniquity, and treason. 
	The haste with which I have necessarily written my book will be my apology to the critics for its defects of style and arrangement. I have been more solicitous about the matter than the manner of it. 

	IT is, of course, necessary for me to give some explanation of the reasons which led me to join the Mormons, and of my motives for remaining so long in connection with them. I am happy to have it in my power to do this easily and satisfactorily. 
	I find that it is almost universally the opinion of those who have heard of me in the eastern part of the United States, that I united myself with the Mormons from a conviction of the truth of their doctrines, and that I was, at least for some time, a convert to their pretended religion. This, however, is a very gross error. I never believed in them or their doctrines. This is, and indeed was, from the first, well known to my friends and acquaintances in the western country, who were well aware of my reasons for connecting myself with the Prophet; which reasons I will now proceed to state. 
	My attention had been long turned towards the movements and designs of the Mormons, with whom I had become pretty well acquainted, years before, in the state of Ohio; and after the formation of their establishment at Nauvoo, in 1839, the facts and reports respecting them, which I continually heard, led me to suspect, and, indeed, believe, that their leaders had formed, and were preparing to execute, a daring and colossal scheme of rebellion and usurpation throughout the North-Western States of the Union. It was to me evident that temporal, as well as spiritual, empire was the aim and expectation of the Prophet and 
his cabinet. The documents that will hereafter be introduced, will clearly show the existence of a vast and deep laid scheme, upon their part, for conquering the States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri, and of erecting upon the ruin of their present governments a despotic military and religious empire, the head of which, as emperor and pope, was to be Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Lord, and his ministers and viceroys, the apostles, high-priests, elders and bishops, of the Mormon church. 
	The fruition of this hopeful project would, of course, have been preceded by plunder, devastation, and bloodshed, and by all the countless horrors which invariably accompany civil war. American citizens could not be expected to stand quietly by, and suffer their governments to be overthrown, their religion subverted, their wives and children converted into instruments for a despot's lust and ambition, and their property forcibly appropriated to the use and furtherance of a base imposture. The Mormons would, of course, meet with resistance as soon as their intentions became evident; and so great was already their power, and so rapidly did their numbers increase, that the most frightful consequences might naturally be expected to ensue, from an armed collision between them and the citizens who still remained faithful to the God and the laws of their fathers. 
	These reflections continually occurred to me, as I observed the proceedings of the Mormons, and, at length, determined me to make an attempt to detect and expose the movers and machinery of the plot. 
	I perceived that it would be useless to undertake this by open opposition. So great and complete was the control that the Prophet had established over the souls of his followers, that very little of his vile proceedings could be made known from the confessions or testimony of his subordinates. Even if one or two did testify to any particular acts of wickedness, such were the address and influence of Smith, that he would, without difficulty, bring forward any required number of witnesses, who would perjure themselves in direct contradiction of his adversaries. 
	It at length occurred to me that the surest and speediest way to overthrow the Impostor, and expose his iniquity to the world, would be to profess myself a convert to his doctrines, and join him at the seat of his dominion. I felt confident that from my standing in society, and the offices I held under the state of Illinois, I should be received by the Mormons with open arms; and that the course I was resolved to pursue would enable me to get behind the curtain, and behold, at my leisure, the secret wires of the fabric, and likewise those who moved them. 
	I was quite aware of the danger I ran, should I be suspected or detected by the Mormons; and I also anticipated the probability of being received by many of my fellow-citizens with disbelief and obloquy, when the time came to throw off the mask, and proclaim to the world the discoveries I felt certain I should make. But none of these things deterred me. Impelled by a determination to save my country and my countrymen from the evils which menaced them through the machinations of the Prophet, I was rendered insensible to the risk I incurred. There was, it was evident, no other way of thwarting the Impostor and his myrmidons, and the plan I proposed to myself could not possibly, so far as I could foresee, fail of complete success. 
	I found in history a distinguished example of a somewhat parallel case, - that in which Napoleon, for the furtherance of the views of the French government upon Egypt and the East, had nominally adopted the Moslem creed. The following is the passage in his Life to which I refer: - 
	The motives which led Napoleon to profess Mohammedanism were undoubtedly a desire to advance the interests of his country, and to facilitate the operations of the army he commanded. But, if these motives justified him in the course he pursued, how much more had I to justify me in a similar line of conduct! His temporary professions of a false religion was by no means absolutely necessary under the circumstances; while, as I before observed, mine was indispensable to the end I had in view. And how much superior was my object to his! He merely wished to promote the ambitions of his government; I, on the contrary, was endeavoring to save my country from the most dreadful evils - civil war, despotism, and the establishment of a false and persecuting religion. 
	"But how," inquires some cautious reader, "were you, as an honest man, justified in taking such a course? What confidence can I place in your statements, when I know, by your own confession, that you have once played the part of a hypocrite!" 
	These suspicions are very natural, and from the first I expected to incur them; but I think that a very little consideration of the extraordinary nature of my case will convince any candid person of the propriety, and indeed necessity, of the course of action I pursued. 
	Suppose for a moment, my dear reader, that you were located on our western frontier, in the vicinity of a large, powerful, and increasing tribe of savage Indians. Suppose it is apparent from their movements, that they intend evil to the whites, your countrymen; that they are meditating murder, plunder, and devastation, and all the horrors that invariably attend an Indian war. Suppose that by going to them, and professing to be their friend, you knew that you would be received by them freely, and admitted into their counsels, and could, by the intelligence you would thus gain, be enabled to frustrate their plans, and advert from your country the evils and dangers which these savages would otherwise bring upon it. Would you for a moment scruple to make such pretensions? especially if, as in the case of the Mormons, there were no other possible way to do what the safety of the west demanded, - viz., expose the imposture. 
	The fact that in joining the Mormons I was obliged to make a pretence of belief in their religion does not alter the case. That pretence was unavoidable in the part I was acting, and it should not be condemned like hypocrisy towards a Christian church. For so absurd are the doctrines of the Mormons that I regard them with no more reverence than I would the worship of Manitou or the Great Spirit of the Indians, and feel no more compunction at joining in the former than in the latter, to serve the same useful purpose. 
	I was perfectly satisfied, even before the Mormons went from Ohio, that it was the intention of Joe Smith and those who possessed his confidence, to destroy the sacred institutions of Christianity, and substitute, instead of its powerful restraints upon the unholy passions of the human heart, a frightfully-corrupt system, that would enable them to give free course to their lust, ambition, and cruelty - a system than which, one more abominable and arch-enemy of mankind himself could not have invented. Persons unacquainted with the subject can scarcely imagine the baseness and turpitude of Mormon principles, and the horrid practices to which these principles give rise. When they learn how habitually the Mormons sacrifice to their brutal propensities the virtue and happiness of young and innocent females, how they cruelly persecute those who refuse to join them, and how they murder those who attempt to expose them, they will look with indulgence upon almost any means employed to thwart their villanous designs and detect and disclose their infamy. 
	There was - I repeat it - no possible way for me to expose the enormous wickedness of the Mormon faith and conduct than to join them, profess my belief in their "religion," win their confidence, and take an active part, for a time, in carrying out their measures. This I did; and I appeal to every reader of this book whether, in view of the facts herein stated upon indubitable evidence, the course I took ought not to entitle me to the praise rather than the censure of honorable men. 
	Had I been actuated by selfish and dishonorable motives, I should have remained among the Mormons; for with them I possessed power, wealth, and the means to gratify every passion or desire that I might conceive. But I felt myself an humble instrument in the hands of God to expose the Impostor and his myrmidons, and to open the eyes of my countrymen to his dark and damnable designs, I have done my duty, and whatever may be thought of my motives and my conduct, I am satisfied with the approval of my own conscience, and I feel certain that I have acted right and honorably. 

After my withdrawal from the Church, the Prophet and his minions withdrew from me the hand of fellowship, and ANTE-DATED THE MORMON BULL OF EXCOMMUNICATION, and presented it to Professor Orson Pratt, zzza. M., one of the twelve Mormon Apostles, for his signature, some days after I showed him my official withdrawal., and Mr. Pratt REFUSED TO SIGN IT- STATING AS HIS REASON that he knew nothing against me. This BULL was signed by the Mormon Hierarchy, who forged the names of Lyman Wight, who was then in Tennessee; William Smith, who was in Pennsylvania; and John E. Page, who was in Pittsburgh! - These are three of the Mormon Apostles. 
	Prentice and Weissinger, the able editors of the Louisville Journal, in their paper of July 23, 1842, speaking on this subject, say, - 

	It will be seen by the foregoing documents, that I was in perfectly good odor with the saints and their rulers, in the Holy City, up to the time of my withdrawal from the Church, and even afterwards. So it appears, from the Prophet's own showing, that the Lord was remarkably well pleased with his servant John C. Bennett so long as he was an advocate of the Mormon creed; but when he came out on the pretended man of God, the Lord's Anointed Old White Hat Prophet, Joe contended that he always knew Bennett was a scoundrel. It appears, therefore, that either the Lord, or Joe, was mistaken. Which do you think it was, Christian reader? 
	I will now conclude by giving my Patriarchal Blessing, from the Holy Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the whole Mormon Church, and Heir-Apparent to the THRONE. 

	Hundreds of such cases might be enumerated, but the above will suffice. 
	Few can doubt the profanity of many of the citizens of Nauvoo, and the Prophet Joe, in particular. MR. BENJAMIN AVISE, of Carthage, said that the first time he ever saw Joe and heard him speak, he swore an oath! Joe is notoriously profane, but he says God will not notice him in cursing the DAMNED GENTILES! 
	All who are acquainted with the Prophet know that he gets most gloriously drunk, occasionally; but he says he only does this to try the faith of the Saints, and show them that he is fallible, like other men. 
	I recollect once that I was taking tea at Joe's house, when there were present, besides myself, Mrs. Merrick and several gentlemen. Joe was in a very glorious state; so intoxicated, indeed, that he could scarcely hold up his head. The Elect Lady, Emma, having left the room in disgust at her husband's beastly state, the Prophet began to fancy that we were all suspiciously observing him; and I shall never forget the ludicrous gravity in which he leaned forward over the table, and addressing Mrs. Merrick, hiccoughed out, Joe took the bowl of Bacchus that day with a perfect looseness! 
	I recollect, upon another occasion, when the female portion of Doctor zzzo Harra's family were on a visit at old Mrs. Smith's, Joe happened in, tolerably drunk, and commenced discoursing in a very low and vulgar manner, much to the annoyance of the ladies. After he had taken his exit, Miss Margaret zzzo Harra observed, - To which the old lady replied, - I thank Miss zzzo Harra for the suggestion. "THE RUFFIAN PROPHET" is quite an appropriate name for the beast. The reader will perceive that Joe has not that regard for temperance that his vote on the city temperance ordinance, which I wrote and procured him to present to the Council, would seem to indicate. His advocacy of that wholesome measure was a mere ruse for foreign consumption. 
	It would appear, likewise, from the following complaint, taken from the city records, that there is some spirit sold and consequently drank, in the Holy City. 

	It is very evident, from the above, that these pretended men of God, who speak as they are "moved by the Holy Ghost," are not in all cases to be depended upon, even when they make careful and deliberate statements through their public newspaper, the acknowledged organ of their Church, and the frequent medium of their inspired communications to the world. Is it not plain, that even the Prophet can sometimes be mistaken in his assertions, even if we acquit him of the guilt of lying, by supposing that he is ignorant of the notorious facts we have quoted? 
	It would also seem that the Holy City of Nauvoo is not quite so pure and inoffensive a place as has been represented; but that, on the contrary, whatever may be the moral professions made, the practice does not altogether conform thereto; and that there is almost as much depravity as is commonly found in a Gentile city of the same size. 

	I will remark here, in confirmation of the above, that the BOOK OF MORMON was originally written by the Rev. Solomon Spalding, zzzam, as a romance, and entitled the "MANUSCRIPT FOUND," and placed by him in the printing-office of Patterson and Lambdin, in the city of Pittsburg, from whence it was taken by a conspicuous Mormon divine, and RE-MODELLED by adding the religious portion placed by him in Smith’s possession, and then published to the world, as the testimony exemplifies. This I have from the CONFEDERATION, and of its perfect correctness there is not the shadow of a doubt. There never were any plates of the Book of Mormon, excepting what were seen by the SPIRITUAL, and not the natural, eyes of the witnesses. The story of the plates is all CHIMERICAL. 

	It does not require Argus eyes to see that General J. Gordon Bennett has no idea of joining the Mormon Autocrat. "The Napoleon of the American Press" is too smart a man, and too wily and shrewd an officer, to think of risking his precious carcass in the tented field in the present crisis; and, in fact, the severe attack of Coup-de-Soleil, (the legitimate effects of the scorching rays of the NEW YORK SUN,) under which he is now laboring, wholly disables him for camp duty. The Scotch Bennetts were never proverbial for their military prowess; and General J. ArJingtrin Bennet, who, by the bye, is one of the most talented and experienced officers in the Union, cannot be cajoled by a military order from His Imperial Holiness, through a Jack-Mormon Adjutant-General, into palpable usurpation and open rebellion against the legal authorities. 

	Yes, the New York Herald is the Mormon official organ in the eastern metropolis, and its ALIEN editor the premonstration of the Prophet himself. This, together with his failing to obtain the printing of this Expose’, as contemplated, will account for the gratuitous vituperative editorial attacks of that "Napoleon" Editor on the author of this work. He is likely to be the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER in the Cabinet of the Mormon Autocratic Emperor of the "WESTERN EMPIRE," and perhaps the DAUPHIN to the regal crown! Else why so opposed to everything American! The Herald Editor is a MORMO-CATHOLIC, and sustains those two creeds against the Protestant Christian world. That able man could employ his fine editorial talents to much better advantage in the advocacy of unsophisticated truth. - 

	It will be seen by the foregoing from the New York Herald of August 13, 1842, (the very day on which "The (Nauvoo) Wasp" published the famous Algerine Habeas Corpus Ordinance, (a very remarkable coincidence,) that the Editor of the Herald (JOE’S OFFICIAL ORGAN IN THE EAST) has been constituted one of the general officers of the NAUVOO LEGION of near three thousand regular troops, and, as one of the Cabinet Ministers (the Keeper of the Privy Seal) of the MORMON EMPEROR, fully intrusted with the secrets of the Administration: consequently all who do not savor strongly of MORMONISM may expect to have the vials of the Heralds fierce wrath and fiery indignation poured out upon their devoted heads, without mixture and in great fury. UPAS'S RICHEST SAP WILL NOT BE HALF SO DEADLY. I am prophet enough to foretell that. So, 

	Professor Turner, in his - published by Platt and Peters, (from which I quote more liberally than I otherwise should, in order to give my readers a fair sample of the great ability and superior 
excellence of that work, the purchase of which I strongly recommend to all the patrons of my Expose’, as being one of the most correct expositions of the Mormon delusion now extant,) says, - 

	Shortly after I located in Nauvoo, Joe proposed to me to go to New York, and get some plates engraved, and bring them to him, so that he could exhibit them as the genuine plates of the Book of Mormon, which he pretended bad been taken from him, and "hid up" by an angel, and which he would profess to have recovered. He calculated upon making considerable money by this trick, as there would of course be a great anxiety to see the plates, which he intended to exhibit at twenty-five cents a sight. I mentioned this proposition to Mrs. Sarah M. Pratt, on the day the Prophet, made it, and requested her to keep it in memory, as it might be of much importance. 
	As an illustration of the hypocrisy of Joe Smith, I will mention a short conversation that passed between him and myself, as we were one day riding together up the banks of the Mississippi. After a short interval of silence, Smith suddenly said to me, in a peculiarly inquiring manner, - 

	Nauvoo, the Holy City of the Mormons and present capital of their empire, is situated in the north-western part of Illinois, on the east bank of the Mississippi, in latitude N. 40° 35’, and longitude W. 14° 23’. It is bounded on the north, south, and west, by the river, which there forms a large curve, and is nearly two miles wide. Eastward of the city is a beautiful undulating prairie. It is distant ten miles from Fort Madison, in Iowa, is fifty-five miles above Quincy, Illinois, and more than two- hundred above St. Louis. 
	Before the Mormons gathered there, the place was named Commerce, and was but a small and obscure village of some twenty houses. So rapidly, however, have they accumulated, that there are now, within three years of their first settlement, upwards of seven thousand inhabitants in the city, and three thousand more, of the Saints, in its immediate vicinity. 
	The surface of the ground upon which Nauvoo is built, is very uneven, though there are no great elevations. A few feet below the soil is a vast bed of limestone, from which excellent building material can be quarried, to almost any extent. A number of tumuli, or ancient mounds, are found within the limits of the city, proving it to have been a place of some importance with the extinct inhabitants of this continent. 
	The space comprised within the city limits is about four miles in its greatest length, and three in its greatest breadth, but is very irregular in its outline, and does not cover so much ground as the above measurement would seem to indicate. 
	The city is regularly laid out - the streets crossing each other at right angles, and being generally of considerable length, and of convenient width. The majority of the houses are as yet merely whitewashed log-cabins, but latterly quite a number of frame and brick houses have been erected. 
	The chief edifices of Nauvoo are the Temple, and a hotel, called the Nauvoo House, neither of which is yet finished. The latter is of brick, upon a stone foundation, and presents a front, on two streets, of one hundred and twenty feet each, by forty feet deep, and is to be three stories high, exclusive of the basement; and, though intended chiefly for the reception and entertainment of strangers and travellers, contains, or, rather, when completed is to contain, a splendid suite of apartments, for the especial accommodation of the Prophet Joe Smith, and his heirs and descendants forever! 
	The privilege of this accommodation he pretends was granted him by the Lord, in a special revelation, on account of his services to the Church. It is most extraordinary that Americans, imbued with democratic sentiments and an utter aversion to hereditary privileges of any kind, could for a moment be blinded to the selfishness of the scoundrel, who thus coolly provided for himself and his latest posterity a palace and a maintenance. We may, however, safely predict that his Imperial Majesty will not continue long in the enjoyment of his palace, and that, if he escapes the fate of Haman, it will only be to wander, like Cain, a vagabond on the face of the earth. 
	The Mormon Temple is a splendid structure of stone, quarried within the bounds of the city. Its breadth is eighty feet, and its length one hundred and twenty, besides an outer court of thirty feet, making the length of the whole structure one hundred and fifty feet. 
	In the basement of the Temple is the baptismal font, constructed in imitation of the famous brazen sea of Solomon. It is upborne by twelve oxen, handsomely carved, and overlaid with gold. Upon the surface of it, in panels, are represented various scenes, handsomely painted. This font is used for baptism of various kinds, viz., baptism for admission into the Church - baptism for the healing of the sick - baptism for the remission of sins - and lastly, which is the most singular of all, baptism for the dead. By this latter rite, living persons, selected as the representatives of persons deceased, are baptized for them, and thus the dead are released from the penalty of their sins! This baptism was performed, I recollect, for General Washington, among many others. 
	The upper story of the Temple will, when finished, be used as a lodge-room for Order Lodge, and other secret societies. 
	In the body of the Temple, where it is intended that the congregation shall assemble, are two sets of pulpits; one for the Melchisedec priesthood, and the other for the Aaronic and Levitical priesthood. 
	The cost of this noble edifice has been defrayed by tithing the whole Mormon Church. Those who reside at Nauvoo, and are able to labor, have been obliged to work every tenth day in quarrying stone, and also upon the Temple itself; and those who reside at a distance have been levied upon to the amount of one tenth of their property. 
	Besides the Temple, there are in Nauvoo two extensive steam saw mills, a large steam flouring mill, a tool factory, on a handsome scale, a foundry, and a company of considerable wealth, from Staffordshire, England, are establishing the manufacture of English china-ware. 
	It has often been asserted, in the Eastern States, that the Mormon settlement in Illinois had a community of goods; but this is not the case. Individual property is held, and society organized, as in other American cities. Not far from the city, however, is a community farm, which is cultivated in common by the poorer classes; but in the city itself each family has an acre allotted to it. 
	The neighborhood of Nauvoo is pretty thickly populated, and chiefly, though not exclusively, by Mormons. 
	The population of the Holy City itself is rather of a motley kind. The general gathering of the Saints has, of course, brought together men of all classes and characters. The great majority of them are uneducated and unpolished persons who are undoubtedly sincere believers in the Prophet and his doctrines. A great proportion of them consists of the ignorant brutalized converts from the English manufacturing districts, who were easily persuaded by Smith's missionaries, to exchange their wretchedness at home for ease and plenty in the Promised Land. These men are devotedly attached to the Prophet's will, and obey his dictates as they would those of God himself. 
	These aliens can, by the law of Illinois, vote, after six months' residence in the State; and they consequently go blindly to the polls, and cast their ballots for whoever is in favor with Joe Smith, and has the expressed approbation of that holy personage. To such an extent does his will influence them, that at the last election in Nauvoo there were but six votes against the candidates he supported! The former inhabitants of Hancock county, those who redeemed it from the wilderness, are almost disfranchised by these new-comers, whose numbers and unanimity give them the political control of the county, and enable them to monopolize all civil and military offices. 
	I need say but little more of Nauvoo and its inhabitants, except to remark that the great mass of the population is composed of Mormons, and what are vulgarly styled Jack Mormons, who are those attached to the Church from interest, but who do not possess overmuch faith in its doctrines, and, indeed, are not considered Mormons. 
	Of the Mormons, I believe the majority to be ignorant, deluded men, really and earnestly devoted to their religion. But their leaders are men of intellect, who are infidels, and profess Mormonism because of the wealth, titles, rank, and power, it procures them. The missionaries who are sent out to convert the Gentiles, are chiefly sincere men, whom Joe cannot trust with a knowledge of his iniquity, and who, from their intelligence, would soon find him out, if they lived at Nauvoo. Their wives, also, are sometimes wanted for the cloister, and consequently the husbands are kept at a distance. 
	As a military position, Nauvoo, garrisoned by twenty or thirty thousand fanatics, armed to the teeth, and well supplied with provisions, would be one of the most formidable in the world. It is unapproachable upon any side but the least, and there the nature of the ground offers great obstacles to besieging operations. It is Smith's intention to (congregate his followers there, until they accumulate a force that can defy anything that can be brought against him. 
	NAUVOO is a Hebrew word, and signifies a beautiful habitation for man, carrying with it the idea of REST; it is not, however, considered by the Mormons their FINAL HOME, but a resting-place only - for they only intend to remain there until they have gathered force sufficient to enable them to conquer INDEPENDENCE, IN JACKSON COUNTY, MISSOURI, which is one of the most fertile, pleasant, and desirable countries on the face of the earth, possessing a soil unsurpassed in any region. Independence they consider their ZION, and they there intend to rear their GREAT TEMPLE, the corner-stone of which is already laid. There is to be the great gathering-place for all the Saints, and in that delightful and healthy country they expect to find their EDEN, and build the NEW JERUSALEM. The Missourians are proverbial for their hospitality, but they will never yield a country of such surpassing beauty, superior excellence, and unbounded fertility, to the Latter Day Saints, or any other saints, without a valuable consideration. The Mormons will never obtain it "BY BLOOD," as they contemplate, and as their books teach. 
	"LOOK WELL TO THE WEST!!" Why, only think of WESTERN MISSOURI, the EDEN OF AMERICA, and the great ST. LOUIS, the METROPOLIS OF THE WESTERN WORLD, with her stupendous, stately edifices, of surpassing beauty and gorgeous, princely structure, whose future glory civic prophets can readily see without the assistance of the Urim and Thummim, falling into the hands of a set of MORMON DESPERADOES!! Joe had better take another look through his PEEP-STONE, for he was certainly mistaken when he made the prediction. The Lord intends that WHITE FOLKS, and not Mormons, shall posses that goodly land, a land truly "flowing with milk and honey," - the desire of nations - the glory of the whole earth. 

	To this Call I have responded, and this Expose’ contains the evidence that I have been enabled to procure. The public can now judge for themselves. I will simply say that my motives have been impugned, and my conduct animadverted upon, by those persons and presses only who are either in the pay of the Prophet, or profoundly ignorant of the nature of the Mormon difficulties. The leading public journals of the country have sustained me, and the cause of truth, morality, and true religion, against knavery, corruption, and religious fraud and imposture. The truth of the disclosures in this Expose’ does not at all depend upon my testimony, but upon a concatenation of circumstances and events, substantiated by depositions, affidavits, and statements, of so irresistible a character, as to carry conviction to the mind of every intelligent, honest individual. The truth is as clear as the sun in the firmament at noonday - whatever may be said to the contrary, by the Prophet and his myrmidons in the Holy City, or their powerful, but mistaken, ally - the able "Napoleon" Editor of the Herald, in the eastern metropolis. The public press has always been, and will always be, divided into two grand parties - the one contends for GOLDEN LORE, and sustains the cause of truth and virtue, - the other contends for GOLDEN ORE, and pleads the cause of falsehood, corruption, and fraud: the former embraces the grand mass of leading journals; the latter, the scurrilous, egotistical, puff-ball sheets, which so often infest the community, and prove a serious annoyance to the moral commonwealth. "Truth is mighty, and will prevail," and the God of all truth will sustain it at the winding-up scene. Though the earth be dissolved, and the heavens fall, the truth of the disclosures in this Expose’ will appear brighter and brighter, until the great day of final retribution. - 

	The most extraordinary and infamous feature of the social and religious system established by the Mormon Prophet, and one in which he closely resembles his master and, model Mahomet, is the secret regulations be has formed for directing the relations of the sexes. 
	The scenes and practices I am about to reveal, will, I am aware, be considered almost incredible, when related as occurring in a civilized and Christian country, and in the enlightened nineteenth century. Their enormity would appear marvellous, if they had been transacted in the most luxurious and corrupt empires of pagan antiquity, or at any of those licentious Oriental courts, where debauchery has been, for ages, systematized and sanctioned by law and religion, on the most extensive scale. The profligacy of Sardanapalus, of Solomon, of Tiberius, of Heliogabalus, and of the modern Turkish and Moorish sultans, has been fully equalled by that of an American citizen in our own day, and one, too, who professes to be the Prophet of the Lord, and the founder of a new and more holy religion than any now existing. 
	Before proceeding to describe the Mormon seraglio, it may not be amiss to speak of similar institutions on the eastern continent, from which, undoubtedly, the Holy Joe first derived the idea of his more extensive and elaborate system. The earliest one on record, we believe, is that of King Solomon; formed by him after he had fallen from bis religion, and become corrupted and enslaved by the fascinations of the women of Egypt The Hebrew records give us no other details of his harem, than the mere number of its inmates. 
	It is in the histories, however, of the Oriental and African monarchs, both in ancient and modern times, that we find the most glaring examples of the practice of polygamy and concubinage. We read of Persian, Chinese, and Moorish sovereigns, who kept thousands of women confined in the interiors of their palaces, and to whom were born hundreds of sons, and uncounted numbers of daughters. But the most renowned and remarkable potentate, in this reject, is the African king of Dahomey, who is by law obliged to maintain no less than thirty-three thousand three hundred and thirty-three wives! It is supposed that the stability of the monarchy depends upon this magical number, which is vigilantly kept complete. In numbers, at least, this black patriarch must be acknowledged to exceed the Holy Joe. 
	Perhaps, however, the most striking parallel to the career of the Mormon, in this, and indeed in other particulars, is that of the Veiled Prophet of Khorassan, the famous Mokanna, whose defeat and downfall have been celebrated by Thomas Moore in his Lalla Rookh. The poet gives the following brilliant description of this impostor's harem: - 

	I will now proceed to describe the seraglio of the modern Mokanna, the Holy Joseph, who differs as much from his Hebrew namesake, the younger son of Jacob, in chastity as in other virtues. 
	The Mormon seraglio is very strictly and systematically organized. It forms a grand lodge, as it were, and is divided into three distinct orders, or degrees. The first and lowest of these is styled the "Cyprian Saints;" the second, the "Chambered Sisters of Charity;" and the third and highest degree is called the "Cloistered Saints," or "Consecrates of the Cloister." 
	To give a clear idea of the system. it will be necessary to treat of these in regular order. - 
	The members of the Female Relief Society, who are ever upon the watch for victims, have the power, when they know, or even suspect, that any Mormon female has, however slightly, lapsed from the straight path of virtue, without the sanction or knowledge of the Prophet, of bringing her at once before the Inquisition. This body is solemnly organized in secret and select council, and by its members, the poor, terrified female is questioned and threatened, until she confesses the crime she has committed, or perhaps, in her confusion and terror, accuses herself of what she was never guilty of. She is immediately, by the council, pronounced a Cyprian, and is excluded from any further connection with the Relief Society. She takes the White Veil, and her name and failing are stealthily promulgated among the trustworthy members of the Church, at whose command she is, for licentious purposes, forever after. Many young and beautiful females have thus been ruined eternally, who, even after a single fault, might have lived to redeem, by repentance and future good conduct, their names and characters from degradation, and their souls from guilt and from remorse. But the secret council of the Inquisistion instantly condemns them, on the confession or proof of their transgression, to perpetual association, with a class devoted to the most infamous purposes; a class set apart and appropriated to the gratification of the vilest appetites of the brutal Priests and Elders of the Mormon Church. Was there ever known, in the history of the world, a more diabolical system than this? Instead of interposing the sacred priestly and prophetical character and influence for the salvation and reformation of an erring sister, to go deliberately to wort, to sink her irreclaimably into the pit of crime and misery! Do not the authors and abettors oi this horrid, this monstrous system deserve most richly the execration and prompt vengeance of an outraged and indignant community? Should such miscreants be longer suffered to pollute, with their contaminating presence, a Christian and civilized land? Humanity and decency loudly demand their punishment, and the rescue of their victims, many of whom realize the beautiful description of the poet - 

	But even the means used to increase the order of Cyprian Saints do not exhaust the depraved ingenuity of the Holy Old White Hat Prophet, and his confidential counsellors. 

Hygiene. - Persons removing to the west should, particularly during their acclimatement, wear flannel next the 
skin, avoid the heavy dews and fogs, and make free use of the TOMATO, (which is one of the very best alteratives and deobstruents known to the Materia Medica - possessing, in an eminent degree, the virtues of calomel divested of the deleterious qualities,) by which they will, in most cases, avoid all those harassing bilious affections, and obstructions, to which unacclimated persons are so frequently subjected. The west, in many parts, is as healthy as any other portion of the globe; but in all migratory operations, a certain acclimation has to be passed through, in which, however, with proper care, there is no danger whatever. In the GREAT WEST, the seat of this contemplated vast Western Empire, the water is pure, the land fertile, the climate salubrious, and the beauty of the scenery unsurpassed - presenting at once the NE PLUS ULTRA of an earthly Elysium.
