	In accordance with our determination, as expressed last week, we present to the reader the articles which were published in hand-bill form, in reference to the case of the Heirs of Joseph Anderson vs. James Adams. These articles can now be read, uninfluenced by personal or party feeling, and with the sole motive of learning the truth. When that is done, the reader can pass his own judgment on the matters at issue. 
	We only regret in this case, that the publications were not made some weeks before the election. Such a course might have prevented the expressions of regret, which have often been heard since, from different individuals, on account of the disposition they made of their votes. 

	It having been stated this morning that the subscriber had refused to give the name of the author of the hand bill above referred to (which statement is not true): to save any farther remarks on this subject, I now state that zzza. Lincoln, Esq. is the author of the handbill in question. 

	We announce to the citizens of this State on what we deem undoubted authority, that Gov. Carlin has agreed to issue State Bonds to the amount required by the contractors on the Canal! 
	This determination of the Governor has undoubtedly been brought about by the solicitation of the leaders of his party. They have made the Canal, and the issuing of State Bonds, a party measure; and though that measure may grind the industrious people of this State to powder, it will be persisted in, BECAUSE THE PARTY WILLS IT! 
	Our readers will receive this intelligence with astonishment. What! another issue of Bonds when they are selling at from 20 to 30 cents on the dollar? How is it possible that the Canal Contractors can receive these bonds at par and carry on their contracts with them. While the law of cause and effect continues to exist, it will be difficult to convince the People that there is not gross iniquity in a measure by which they are again to be swindled, plundered and robbed. 
	If the people will stand such conduct from their public servants, they are fitted to be “hewers of wood and drawers of water to their masters. 

	“Jo. Smith” was nominated, we suppose, to cast ridicule upon the Mormons. The delegate who put him in nomination would neither vote for nor withdraw him. 

	On Saturday last a son of Mr. Gregory, residing in the country, while returning home from this city on horseback, when within three hundred rods of home, was thrown from his horse, his foot caught in the stirrup, and he was drugged onward till life was extinct. His remains were found by his mother, soon after the token.

	The "Times and Seasons," the Mormon paper, published at Nauvoo, in this State, of January 1, 1842, contains a Proclamation signed "JOSEPH SMITH, Lieutenant General of the Nauvoo Legion," directing the Mormons of this State, to vote for zzza. W. SNYDER and JOHN MOORE, for Governor and Lieutenant Governor, in August next. - This document, and others contained in the same paper, we shall publish in our next. If they do not set the citizens of this State to thinking, we do not know what will. 

	SINCE the Declaration of Independence, there has been a revolution in the minds of men in regard to religious matters consequent to, and equal to that immortal Chart. Time was, when our fathers, in their feeble ideas of the power of Religion, supposed it necessary to the support of the revealed religion of the Omnipotent GOD, that the civil power and the sword should enforce an obedience to His commands, - as if the Almighty needed the strength of man to the perfection of His work, or that the freedom of will he had given to ALL, should be enslaved for their conversion. 
But now it is otherwise. The Catholic, who in the days of Mary, Queen of England, could have looked on the martyr, suffering at the stake, without a shudder, would now sacrifice his life rather than this abominable punishment for the freedom of thought, should be inflicted upon one differing from himself in creed. The Calvinist or Presbyterian, who in the days of Calvin, would have looked with dry-eyed satisfaction upon the devouring flames, as they wreathed themselves around the agonized body of poor Servetus, or, who, in the days of Knox, eager for the demolition of image worship, would destroy the venerated works of art, and drive the unhappy few who clung to their father s faith into exile, or put them to death for worshipping their God according to their conscience - would now risk his all in the defence of a Catholic house of worship, and would rather have his right aim withered to the shoulder, than put to death his supposed erring brother. 
	The revolution within the U. States, consequent upon the Declaration of Independence, was not simply a political revolution, - it was something grander still - it was a moral revolution, greater than that recorded of any other nation upon the pages of history. For where, in the annals of the world, was there a nation, who, before us, struck from the soul of man the chains of civil bigotry, which held his conscience in bondage? Where the nation but our own, to say - "You may worship your God, protected and unmolested, according to the form your reason dictates: and you may believe or disbelieve, as circumstances and the strength or weakness of your judgment leads you." 
	The freedom our fathers obtained for our bodies is worthless, nothing to the emancipation given by them to the soul, in that most sacred instrument - the Declaration of Independence! If we are justly jealous, therefore, of our rights as citizens, and the freedom of our bodies, as won by the blood of our fathers, how much more jealous should we be of the rights of conscience and the freedom of the soul, - that pearl above all price - which they have left us a legacy! 
	With such ideas as these, the citizens of Illinois have opened their arms to the sect called MORMONS, in their hour of distress. They have wept for the wrongs which they had undergone in Missouri, and have shielded and guarded them until they are now numerous and fearless of danger. God grant them the sense to shun a comparison with the asp of the fables. This fable may he shortly told for their advantage: A countryman, upon a cold winter day saw an Asp, a very poisonous snake, lying torpid with cold, by the road side, and in the simple kindness of his heart, he lifted it up and took it home - where he laid it before the fire to recover; and with his wife and children kindly rejoiced in seeing life returning to the snake. After the heat had sufficiently acted upon the asp, it raised its head, and instead of thanks to its benefactor, began hissing and curling itself up preparatory to a deadly attack upon the farmer, who, seeing its intent and aim, destroyed it! The moral is perceptible, and needs no words of explanation. 
	Why have we written the above? and why do we warn our harmless brothers of Nauvoo? Simply for this: - though we have no objection that they should act individually and independently, as their conscience dictates, yet when they attempt to join the civil power with the religious, they attempt to destroy our hard-earned birth-right of liberty of conscience, and compel us to retaliate for the injury done. 
	The Proclamation which follows this preface, is in itself most strange and daring - perversive of the privileges of a citizen! If would not be so, were the signer anyone else than the person whom it represents - JOSEPH SMITH. Mr. S. is supposed by his followers to be a Prophet of the Most High God. Whether he is or not, is no matter of dispute at present; but as such Prophet he is held in the highest veneration and respect by his followers, whom he leads easily by the belief of his high calling. Now, as long as Mr. SMITH keeps near the sanctuary and prophecies of religion, he is guileless of offence; but when he enters upon the duties of a civil office of the State, and as a Lieutenant General, speaks to his friends, whom he KNOWS AS A PROPHET he can command, and uses the religious influence he possesses, under the Military garb he has acquired, he becomes a dangerous man, and must look to the consequences. If he would take a friendly advice, we would say, let some Joshua, the son of Nun, lead the armies, and let him stick to interpretation and prophecy, - for we do assure him upon an honest belief, that his situation in Illinois, is far more dangerous than ever it was in Missouri, if he undertakes to take Mahomet’s part, his only prototype, save Mokhanna, and play the warrior and prophet. 
	As for the Supreme Judge, who is so all powerful with this sect, let him look to it that ambition does not overleap its mark. 
	The following is the article spoken of, taken from the "Times and Seasons," printed at Nauvoo, January 1, 1842." - 

	A word in conclusion to those who are Mormons. If you are men deserving the name of freemen, be not biased in temporal affairs by him whom you think your leader in Eternal. If he came to save souls, the political arena is not his field of action - he has quitted the post which God assigned him, and has proved recreant to his mission by accepting a military station, and by aiming to influence your minds to vole as he thinks proper. It is useless to tell you that we are not the followers of your leader, - this you know, - but it is not useless to tell you that Christ did not assume a military garb, and that his power was not of this world. Nor is it useless to point out to you the precipice to which he leads you, and beg you to shun it. 
	To the citizens of Illinois generally, we say, read Mr. Smith’s Proclamation attentively and think upon it. 

	The Quincy Herald (loco foco) has the following remarks upon Gen. Smith s proclamation. We commend them to the attention of the Peoria Press. 
	If Mr. Smith intended it (the Proclamation.) as the expression of his own individual determination in regard to which of the candidates he would sustain, no fault can or ought to be found with it. Every man in this country has a perfect and undeniable right of expressing and publishing, if he sees proper, his opinions upon any or all subjects which may be in agitation before the people. This is a right which is guarantied by the great charter of our liberties and a right which none dare question. Thus far, then, Mr. Smith has only exercised the privileges of an American citizen, and it does seem to us to be extremely foolish for conductors of the press to sneer at him for doing that which they themselves perpetrate every week of their lives. If, however, this letter was put forth as a sort of royal edict, as many seem to suppose, commanding all his followers, and all of the same faith or persuasion, with himself, to vote for the men whom he should signify, then we will admit that it is presumption in the extreme. Mr. Smith has a right to vote for whom he pleases, and he has a right to express that determination in any way he sees proper; but he has no right, either religious, moral, or political, to put chains upon the minds and wishes of his followers, and say to them - you must vote as I direct! We hope for the honor of Mr. Smith, that such was not his design; and if it was, we hope, for the honor and intelligence of the Mormons, that there is enough of independence and love of liberty among them, to treat his requisitions with the scorn and contempt they merit. They have forsaken the lands of their nativity, in order that they might enjoy their religion, and worship God in their own way, without fear of dictation from others. If they now suffer one man to shackle their free thoughts and opinions, and use them to subserve his ends, instead of gaining that liberty which they have been seeking, they are the very worst of slaves. 

	The corrupt bargain by which the leaders of the Van Buren party, have sought to purchase the votes of the Mormons, and the open avowal by Joe Smith, that the Mormons shall support the candidate of the party, because Judge Douglass and other party leaders have secured to them certain extraordinary chartered privileges - over and above those enjoyed by any other sect - has called public attention to the movements of Joe Smith, - to the tyranny exercised by him over his followers, - to the moral principles by which he is governed, - and it is now not likely that he will much longer deceive the mass of the People, however much he may deceive those who have surrendered all their interests - spiritual and temporal - into his hands. 
	There are individuals in his flock, possessed of talents and disposition to use them for the benefit of their sect and the country. Among these individuals we reckon Gen. Bennett, Sidney Rigdon, Esq., Mr. George Robinson, and others. But the Prophet will scarely permit them to think or act except in entire subservience to his wishes. It is now understood, that within a few days past, Smith has made a desperate blackguard and abusive public attack on Gen. Bennett, Mr. Rigdon and Mr. Robinson - and reports, and we place great reliance upon them, go so far as to say that the life of the former has been threatened, and that orders have been issued to the Danite band to murder him in a clandestine manner on the first opportunity. Indeed, the report goes farther and states that two of the Danites have been in hot pursuit of Gen. Bennett for several days, in order to accomplish the nefarious purpose, and thus prevent a public exposition of the corruptions of the great impostor. 
	We call upon the people of our State to have an eye upon this matter - and if either of the individuals mentioned should be missing, - that there shall be no hesitation in placing the responsibility of the act upon its proper authors, and in making them feel in their own persons that murder shall be avenged. 
	We take no pleasure in placing these remarks upon paper. If a secret band of assassins shall prowl about among this community, who is safe? The fate of Gov. Boggs is an event not to be unheeded. But we should be unworthy of our position should we fail to meet this matter as it deserves. - And we now call upon Gen. Bennett, if the rumors we have stated have just foundation, "to take his life into his hands," if that be required, and, with the true spirit of a soldier and a patriot, expose the crimes, if such exist, of the heaven-daring impostor. - We call upon Gen. Bennett, to come out NOW. We appeal to him to do this in behalf of his fellow-citizens, who claim this of him, by all the considerations which can be presented to him as a lover of his species and as the servant of his God. Such an exposure may save life - may expose corruption - may avert consequences which no man can contemplate without fearful apprehensions. We call upon Gen. Bennett to produce documentary evidence, that the public may form opinions that cannot be gainsayed - that they may understand the entire character, as it stands naked before his God, of a long successful religious impostor. 
      Among the subjects which we call upon Gen. Bennett, Messrs. S. Rigdon, G. W. Robinson and others to notice, are the rumors that Joe Smith, some short time before he applied for the benefits of the Bankrupt Law, was in possession of most valuable property - a part of which he made over to himself as sole trustee for the use of the Mormon Church, and another part for the use of his wife and children. The Records of Hancock county will show if these things are so. And if these rumors are true, we call upon Mr. Robinson to come here with his proof - and let it be placed before the zzzus Circuit Court at its first session. We trust that there will be no hesitation in doing this - that there will be no compromise - no efforts to injure the innocent, and no pains spared to expose the guilty. 
      Such is the opinion we hold of Gen. Bennett, that we shall expect he will respond to the calls made in this article. It appears to us, under all the circumstances of the case he will not refuse to do so. While he will be upon his guard against midnight assassination - while he will regard with contempt the "bulls of excommunication" issued against him - he will proceed to make developments that will astonish the world. 
      The People of Illinois will then see the character of that man who has avowed his determination to fill the two first offices of this State with his own creatures - Thomas Ford and John Moore. 

Bankruptcy of Joe Smith - Threatened murder of Gen. Bennett, to prevent disclosures - Gen. Bennett defies the impostor - pledges himself to deliver up Joe Smith to the Governor of Missouri upon receiving legal authority for the purpose - declares that Joe Smith is a disbeliever in the God of Heaven - says that the State Arms at Nauvoo, are suffering injury and that they will be delivered up on the requisition of Gov. Carlin - says that the office of Lieut. General, which Joe Smith says places him on an equality with Washington and above Gen. Scott, is unconstitutional - shows that the excommunication of Gen. Bennett was done sometime after he had withdrawn from the Mormons, "the best feelings subsisting between all parties" - appeals lo documents for proof - denounces Joe Smith as the seducer of single and married females - instances his attempts on the virtue of Miss Nancy Rigdon, eldest daughter of Sidney Rigdon, Esq., who he approached "in the name of the Lord and by his authority and permission" - refers to George W. Robinson and F. M. Higbee for information on this subject - speaks of Joe Smith’s attacks upon individuals to destroy their influence and to prevent an exposition of his conduct - refers to Miss Martha Brotherton of Warsaw, for the history of an attempt of Joe Smith upon her honor - Gen. Bennett asserts that hundreds of such cases can be given, if the Danites do not murder him - that he has "the evidence, and it shall come" - he promises to expose frauds, which will save to the creditors of Joe Smith hundreds of thousands of dollars - asserts that Joe Smith has violated his obligations as a mason, and has established "a new order" himself - states that an affidavit made by himself, which Smith was using against him, was made while he was in duress, and he had the choice of being murdered or of making the affidavit - he further states that Joe Smith has recently directed the people to give up "all their property to the Lord, and lay it at the apostle’s (Joe Smith’s) feet - uproar and confusion at Nauvoo - the life of Capt. Amos Davis threatened, etc. etc. 
	The public will be astounded at the statements made by Gen. Bennett in the article which follows from under his own hand. - 
That in this day of light and intelligence, such a man as Joe Smith should be able to collect around him a mass of people, and make them believe in his shallow and miserable scheme of imposture, is matter of astonishment now, and will be more so in after times. 
	We presume that the Journal has been made the medium through which Gen. Bennett’s publication has been given to the people, on the ground that the political papers of his own party, (Gen. Bennett belongs to the "democratic" party,) are at this time making common cause with Joe Smith, for the purpose of securing his influence in opposition to Gov. Duncan and in favor of Thomas Ford. Gen. Bennett has judged correctly, that in a case like this, where the interests of morality and of civil and religious liberty are so deeply concerned, the use of the columns of our widely circulating paper is free to a political opponent. 
	Gen. BENNETT is the individual appointed by Judge Douglas, Master in Chancery for Hancock County - a most important and responsible office, from the fact that the Master in Chancery, in many cases, performs the duty of a Judge of the Supreme Court. We have therefore the official endorsement of Judge Douglass, (which, however, is not needed,) in support of the character of Gen. Bennett for truth, and all those qualities required of one who fills an office of high responsibility. 
	We state these facts, that the public may duly appreciate the attacks of those men upon Gen. Bennett, who are acting with Joe Smith, to decry and to destroy him - and which attacks, so far, are made invariably by the friends of Thomas Ford and John Moore. 
	From some remarks of Gen. Bennett in the article below, we are induced to believe that the people will hear further from him through the medium of the Journal. 

	We have another communication from General BENNETT. Its disclosures are horrible. We shall publish it in an extra as soon as possible. 
	Joe Smith and Ford’s friends are uniting their forces to destroy the weight of Bennetts evidence. This is as we anticipated. 

	Our city and county have been in a state of much excitement for a week past, growing out of the disclosures, made by General BENNETT, the military leader of the Nauvoo Legion and the same gentleman appointed by Judge DOUGLASS as Master for Chancery in Hancock County. 
	From the position occupied by Gen. Bennett, and his known character for fearlessness in a cause he knows to be right, the people have certain grounds of assurance that he will not be deterred from his undertaking and that all his statements, given of his own knowledge, are undeniable facts. - People at a distance, therefore may judge of the degree of excitement which the exposures of the pollutions and corruptions and enormities of Joe Smith, have caused in our community. 
	We cannot say that all have partaken of the indignation which these disclosures should have produced. A knot of politicians, including our State officers here, have felt no other interest in the matter than as it was likely to affect the election of their candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor. They have, therefore, made it their business to decry Gen. Bennett and sustain Joe Smith! The State Register is the faithful mirror of their sentiments and wishes. That paper joins with Joe Smith in traducing Gen. Bennett; and meanly intimates that he may be a horse thief! - Shame shame upon these allies of Smith! The same paper deprecates the disclosures of Gen. Bennett, BECAUSE they will prevent the election of Ford and Moore. Most of the editorial articles of the last Register were seemingly designed to palliate the outrages on all laws, human and divine, disclosed by Gen. Bennett. The Register even goes so far as to say - 

	This question can readily be disposed of by asking another, - if the party leaders here have not made a contract with Joe Smith for his Mormon votes, why should they at this time, deprecate the disclosures of Gen. Bennett? The question can be answered, with truth, in no other manner than this, - that they have contracted with Joe Smith for the Mormon votes, and they apprehend that the disclosures of Bennett, connected with the knowledge of that contract, will produce a general indignation among the people, and result, as they should do, in the most exemplary defeat of Ford and Moore, the advancement of whom was the object of this iniquitous contract. 
	The Register quotes an article from our paper of an old date deprecating the introduction of the Mormon religion into politics. When that article was written, we presume, no man believed that the Mormon religion permitted such atrocities as have been disclosed by Gen. Bennett. We received the Mormons into this State as we did every other sect. Disclosures have shown that the head of that church acts not under the influence of that pure religion which Jesus Christ established upon the earth; and that his vaulting ambition would secure to himself the control of our State elections. 
	The Register judges well that we are opposed to the Mormon religion as illustrated by Gen. Bennett and the connection of Mormonism with the election of Ford and Moore. We are glad that Gen. Bennett has made his disclosures before the election; - because they will open the eyes of the people and will prevent the success of that FOUL PLOT - that INFAMOUS BARGAIN - between the Register and other heads of the party and Joe Smith to secure the election of Thomas Ford and John Moore with Mormon votes and to give Joe Smith what he already claims, "the power to dictate to the State." 

	We publish this week the second number of General BENNETT’S "disclosures" of Joe Smith’s villainy and imposture, which surpasses in criminality and infamy, anything that has been brought to light in the history of civilized society, - which must, we think, arouse the indignation of every friend of morality, and the peace and happiness of civil society. Enough had been disclosed heretofore to have satisfied every intelligent mind that Joe Smith was the greatest knave and impostor of modern times; but never until now has there been any tangible legal evidence of the fact. If it be true, as charged by Joe Smith, and the friends of the Mormon candidates for Governor and Lt. Governor, (FORD and MOORE) that the testimony of Gen. BENNETT is unworthy of credence, yet there are circumstances, and other collateral evidence, going to establish the charges, that cannot be resisted without a violation of every principle of legal evidence. 
	As long ago as 1839, the existence of this murderous "Danite Band," and the object contemplated by its organization, was disclosed by a gentleman in Missouri, who had become satisfied of the imposture of Joe Smith, and the dangerous and disorganizing tendency of his doctrines. We have the pamphlet of Mr. JOHN CORRILL now before us, from which we make the following extract: - 

	The attempted assassination of Governor BOGGS, of Missouri, under the circumstances, and the murder and mysterious disappearance of individuals who had refused implicit obedience to the "Lord’s Anointed," (Joe Smith,) that have recently occurred, together with the statements of Gen. BENNETT, corroborated by the affidavits of unimpeachable witnesses, are calculated to excite serious alarm and apprehension throughout this community, and call loudly upon the legal authorities of the State for their interference. 
	We regard the lives of those who have had the moral firmness to lend their aid in bringing to light the villainy of this arch impostor, as in imminent danger, and we should not be surprised at any time to hear of their assassination, or mysterious disappearance. We know that the life of Gov. Duncan has already been threatened publicly, and who among us is safe from vile assassination while sitting around the domestic fireside, if he shall dare to question the truth of the book of Mormon, or the infallibility of their prophet Joe Smith, so long as this murderous band of "Danites" are suffered to go at large? 
	That there are many good and conscientious people among the Mormons, who have been the dupes of the impostor, we do not entertain a doubt; but all who adhere to Joe Smith, after these proofs of his knavery, must be regarded by the world as deluded creatures, and entitled to their commiseration; or, as willing participators in his impious frauds and debaucheries. 
	We hope Gen. BENNETT will continue his investigations and developments, regardless of the abuse and calumny so lavishly bestowed upon him by our political opponents, led on by Joe Smith in person; and that those to whom he has referred for confirmation of his statements, will have the moral and physical courage to speak out boldly, and tell what they know from sad experience of the frauds and imposture of the infamous Prophet, and cunning knave, Joe Smith. They owe it to their own characters for integrity; and to the thousands of their deluded fellow sufferers; and above all they owe it to their GOD and their COUNTRY! 
	We repeat, that a sense of duty to the community in which we live, impels us to to call upon Messrs. ORSON PRATT, SIDNEY RIGDON, GEORGE W. ROBINSON, WILLIAM MARKS and FRANCIS M. HIGBEE, not to disappoint public expectation at this eventful crisis, but to come out like honest and pure men, and expose the corruptions of the impostor. We appeal to them, as they love their country - as they would enjoy the respect of others and of themselves - as they would do eternal honor to their own reputation - to come out in full, NOW, and speak fearlessly like men, and secure the respect of the good and patriotic of all parties, and of all sects, and of all men. 
	With the same purpose we would also implore Messrs. CHAUNCEY L. HIGBEE, HENRY MARKS, Mrs. SARAH M. PRATT, Miss NANCY RIGDON, and Miss MITCHELL, all of Nauvoo; and Rev. SAMUEL JAMES, and Capt. JOHN F. OLNEY, of La Harpe; and the Messrs. KILBOURN’S, of Montrose, Iowa; to come out with published statements, as to their own knowledge of Smiths lascivious and hellish acts. The columns of this paper may be freely used for placing such statements before the world. The publications made by Gen. Bennett are believed by all men; - and those gentlemen and ladies owe it to their self-respect, to their high regard for the morals and good of society, to come forth now and hold up the impostor and his acts in their naked deformity before the world; - and thus secure for themselves the approbation of their own consciences and of all those who do not regard the election of Thomas Ford and John Moore above every other earthly consideration. 

Gen. Bennett held in duress - Joe Smith threatens to give him over to the Danites for execution - Col . Higbee’s affidavit, that Smith recommended the murder of Bennett for the good of the church - the "fulfilment of prophecy" - attempted murder of Gov. Boggs - preparations for defending Joe Smith - application to Gov. Carlin - Joe details a court martial to try Gen. Bennett for treason!!!! - strange givings out concerning a murder in Missouri - Bennett followed by Danites to Springfield - Joe Smith approaches Mrs. Pratt for base purposes "in the name of the Lord" - she is proof against his villainy - Joe sacrifices lambs when he meets defeat - further particulars of his attacks upon Miss Rigdon, and of the heroic virtue with which she baffled the seducer - case of Miss Martha Brotherton, of Warsaw - affidavit of Gen. Bennett, detailing some of Joe’s enormities - comments - affidavit of Mrs. Schindle - etc. etc. 

	We have late information from Nauvoo Joe Smith anticipates a requisition upon Gov. Carlin from Governor Reynolds of Missouri, for his person; and is determined not to be given up. He has all the State Arms, some twenty or thirty cannon a large number of muskets, yagers, pistols, and cutlasses all belonging to the State, which he is prepared to use against the State authorities if they shall attempt to deliver him to Gov. Reynolds. Joe reiterates that he will not be given up and the Mormons say that the Prophet shall not be taken while any of them are left to defend him! 
	A pretty pass truly! Joe Smith, in possession of the State Arms, and defies the authorities of the State! We are informed that an application was made to the proper authorities of this State, before the Arms were taken to Nauvoo, for a portion of them to arm a military company of Macoupin County, but the application was refused! We shall soon see the consequences of Gov. Carlins military manoeuvres in this particular. But Joe Smith will find, we trust, that he is not yet able to frighten the citizens of this State. Place Gen. Duncan at the head of the. Government, and Joe will find that the youthful Hero of Sandusky the gallant compeer of Croghan - will soon make the laws and constitution of the country respected and obeyed by Joe Smith and his hosts, even if they have possession of the State Arms. - 

	What Joe’s morality amounts to, can be learned from his letter to Miss RIGDON, which will be found in the 6th communication of GEN. BENNETT, in this paper. Joe Smith, in the letter alluded to, undertakes to sustain by Scriptures, by reason, argument and GOD’S REVELATION TO HIMSELF, the lawfulness of his “spiritual wife doctrine.” The argument is very specious, and had been addressed to a young lady of only ordinary attainments, a believer in Joe’s divine mission, it is not improbable it might have accomplished the object designed by Smith. But happily for Miss RIGDON, she was too well informed, possessed too much moral firmness, and was too deeply imbued with the true religion of the Bible, to be overcome by Smith’s hellish schemes. She resisted them, and unquestionably from this cause arose all those slanders against her father that have for sometimes been in the mouth’s of Joe’s followers here. 
	To a young lady of Miss Rigdon’s sensibility, the publications made, in which her name has been introduced, must have given her pain. We should have been glad if we could have avoided making those publications consistently with what we regarded as the high interests of our community, But Miss Rigdon will have satisfaction of knowing that her case has elicited the strong sympathies not only of her own sex, but that of the other; and that her triumph over the wiles of the impostor will be a bright example to her sex, and will be spoken to her praise whenever her name shall be know. 
	In this letter there is enough evidence to make it the duty of the officers of the law to bring Joe Smith before the Grand Jury, of the county - not for the purpose of giving him further liberty and permitting the immoral monster to roam through the county, by giving him a sham trial, and allowing him to escape from justice - but to secure all the evidence which can be found bearing on the case, and if guilty make his punishment commensurate with his high professions and his crimes. The impostor is now unveiled. His infatuated followers may suppose, by affidavits of his virtue, his purity and his holiness, to keep up the delusion, but that time is pat. And if he is not brought to justice by the officers of the law, they will be guilty of a flagrant breach of duty. 

	Since Col. Robinson has withdrawn from the Mormons the leaders of the clan have adopted the course usual with them in such cases - they have attempted to destroy the character of Col. Robinson, so that any disclosures he may make of the venality and corruption of Joe Smith and company, may not be believed - by charging against him a fraudulent attempt in the sale of some town lots in Nauvoo. These charges were published in the Nauvoo Wasp of the 4th inst. We have received Col. Robinson’s refutation of them, but not in time for this week’s paper. We trust that Col. Robinson will give the public, hereafter, the reasons which led him to withdraw from the Mormons. 

      The Quincy Herald of the 9th, states that on the previous day, the officers charged by Gov. Carlin with the duty of arresting Joe Smith, left that city for the purpose of making a second arrest; and adds, “It remains to be seen whether he will permit himself peaceably to be taken.” - 
	On Tuesday evening a hand-bill was received in this city, by the western mail, purporting to have been issued at the office of the Quincy Herald, (and from the appearance of the type with which it was printed, we are of the opinion, that it was printed at that office), stating that there had been an outbreak among the Mormons - that they had resisted the authorities, and some 20 or 30 had been killed, etc. As the people were looking for the important news from that quarter, the hand-bill produced some excitement; but a few hours after Gen. Whiteside arrived from Quincy, and the publication was discovered to be a hoax. The source of the hoax, we cannot discover. 
	We know learn on what we deem good authority that(?), the officer and his assistants, who were sent after Smith and Rockwell, could not find either of the. This result is just about what we anticipated. Gov. Carlin and his party have no serious design, as we believe, to give up Joe Smith and his worthy colleague, Rockwell. We should not be surprised if Joe Smith should again bring himself before Judge Douglass, on a writ of habeas corpus. But whether that functionary will again discharge him, remains to be seen. 
