	General John C. Bennett: 
	Dear Sir, - 
	Joseph Smith is yet thrashing about, tearing up the D****, and slandering every body. He has not lit on Rigdon and Robinson very severely as yet, but touched them slightly on Sunday, also myself; and we must keep things right side up. Mrs. Schindle's affidavit is a good one, and Mrs. G**, I have understood, was going to give hers. Mrs. Pratt, I think, will also give hers - also, Miss Nancy Rigdon. Joe is operating with Mrs. White, and it is reported, that he is to settle upon her a fine sum soon, or return the money he and Sherman took from Bill White some time ago. You ought to see Mrs. White, and labor with her, as soon as possible, and secure her testimony, because it would he great. As it respects my affidavit, sir, for God's sake, my sake, and the sake of my people, do not show it to any one on earth, as yet, never, until I five you liberty. Stiles has seen it, and you must swear him that he will keep dark as h***. I am yet true as death, and intend to stick or die, but you must keep my name back, because I am not ready as yet to leave; and as soon as you bring my name out, they are certain to take my life - they go it like h***, yet. I am likely to sell my property here, and as soon as I do, I will emigrate like lightning. Scorch them with the Missouri writ - that is what scares them like the d***, Porter not excepted. 
	Your dear friend, 
	Francis M. Higbee. 
	P. S. I think I will be out to Carthage to see you soon: come in as soon as you can, but do not stay here long, or over night. Pratt is true - Rigdon is good. F. M. H. 

Mr. J. Smith 
	Sir - I have understood my name was brought before the public on Saturday last - When I was accused of having written to Missouri; in connexion with Mr Rigdon and others - To which charge I plead not guilty. My Situation has rendered such an event impossible; for it is well known by your honor, I have been at Cincinnati during the past year; And consequently could not have written in, and subscribed, to the same letter, with Mr. Rigdon, who was residing in Nauvoo - Nor did I return home from Cincinnati untill after the Dixon scrape, when I found you at home. All may know ful-well since my return home I have been sick all the time, and had much else to think about. My Father’s death has been enough, when taken into connexion with other things of less moment, to engage engross my whole attention; without seeking to draw down upon my own head, and the heads of my mother’s family another Scourge, such as we suffered in Missouri. Who suffered more, and hazzarded life oftener than did I - God forbid that ever I should be instrumental in bringing destruction upon not only upon my friends, but upon myself and relatives - Then Sir please read this, or announce to the public, that the charge, with which I stand charged, is false - false - false - And greatly oblige 
	Your very humble and most Obt Svt. 
	Francis M. Higbee - 

Mr. J. Smith; 
	Sir 
	The inconsiderate, the unwarented, and unheard of attack you made upon my character on the 6th instant before the City Council, impels me to demand an investigation of you, and that without delay before the eclesiastical powers. For if I am guilty, of either of those charges, omitting the guilt of the whole, I most unquestionably am not worthy a name among a people making as great professions as do the people called mormons. It is said I seeke the hours of the midnight assassin to seize my victim, when no one is near to bear witness of the crime or attest the unhollowed deed; that I sympathize with the afflicted and oppressed, that I may devour their vitals; that I seek the mantle of religion to envelop my Scorpian body, that I may the better practice my nefarius designs; - Then sir, if I am acting in this sphere, am I not acting in the sphere of a hypocrite, and am I not a darke body suffered a place on the fair escutcheon of our Religion? In deciding this question, let us not sever the moorings of Christianity, and plunge into the mad sea of revenge? persuade the mariner to sell his compass? or Washington his sword; persuade an inteligent man to pluck out his eyes, to enjoy the unmitigated horrors of blindness? Truth is our compass on the stormy Sea of life; before which wealth, power, authority, talent and genious tremble, as did Felix on his thrown; when Heaven and Earth shall pass away, Truth shall arise like the angel on Manoah’s Sacrifice, upon the flame of Natures funeral pyre, and ascend to her source, her heaven and her home, the bosom of the Holy, and eternal God. 
	Sir any man so base, so lost to every principle of honor and virtue, So unmindful of the obligations he owes to his fellow man; and So forgetful of those he is under to his God, as to wrap himself in the habiliments of religion and under the garb of Christianity perpetrate the crimes which you have allidged to me, deserves to die if ever man merited death. 
	I want you to thouroughly understand, I look upon that Species of crime, as the greatest, the most distructive to human happiness, and the most fatal to all earthly enjoyment. The history of the dark ages warrants me in the assertion, during the days when the "end was thought to Justify the means" when patents of absolution were granted; during the days of Leo X. and Tetzel, Christianity and virtue are emblimatical of that noble independence which always characterizes a man of God. That man who posesses those envied charms, can Shroud himself in a good conscience and defy the foulest breath that man can breath; he is looking forward without the least fear to the great change; and no chains are so strong, no fetters are bound as tight, as those which bind his soul to this tenement of clay. 
	Sir, you have Struck a blow at every thing which renders existence Sweet; you have sought to blast evry proud hope, and every fond expectation, by throwing into free circulation reports, the truth of which, God is some day to Judge. The cause of your course towards me, has astonished many, from the fact that they can not divine the reason; and as for myself, I am as ignorant of the cause, as a child unborn. As for the opinion which I always, and still entertain, with regard to the propriety of one mans having more than one woman, or this spiritual business, I am not ashamed to avow, in your presence or in the face and eyes of the world; I have repeatedly Said and am still of the Same opinion "fixed and determined as the pole star" that any revelation commanding or in any wise sufering sexual intercourse, under any other form, than that prescribed by the laws of our Country, which has been ratified by special revelation through you, is of HELL; and I bid defiance to any or all such. As far as my character and influence extends, I am willing, not only willing but determined to oppose it, under every form it can present itself. Whenever my name shall be sounded, my opposition to such a hellish fabrication, shall be known; at the peril of my life, my fortune and my sacred honor. 

	Though the people should riot and project insurrection; though tyrants should rage and threaten destruction; though the hurricane should lay open the bed of the Sea; though the earthquake should tear the globe in pieces; though the Stars should fall from their spheres, and the frame of nature be disolved, I know virtue will protect her votaries, while the good man will remain tranquil amidst the ruins of the world. 

	That man who pursues a course diferent from that which I have persued, and am still determined to persue, may reach the regions of pleasure where the happy companions, Contentment, Friendship, Knowledge, Wealth, Dignity, and Fame Shall greet him; but alas! how soon must he according to the inevitable decree of Heaven, be consigned to Extravagance, Luxury, and Avarice, who will soon commit their unfortunate victim to Sorrow, remorse and dispair. Then Sir With me it is virtue, or vice; I am a devoted friend to virtue; and Sir a court or council of the church must declare me otherwise immediately: or I shall think you unjust in the extreem; then Sir I claim the right of investigation, I claim the right to a fair and impartial, and public trial; and that without delay. From your mere ipse dixit I shall extricate myself, for bear it I will not; I am quite determined not to remain quiet, under the foul imputations cast upon me. 
	Bur Sir I hold myself in readiness for an investigation and ever shall. 
	I remain 
	Francis Marion Higbee 
P.S. Notify me of the course you shall pursue with regard to an investigation before the church powers, if you please immediately. 
	F.M. H. - 

CITIZENS OF HANCOCK COUNTY. 
	It is well known to all of you that the August election is fast approaching, and with it comes the great and terrible conflict. It is destined to be a day pregnant with big events; for it will be the index to the future. - Should we be defeated upon that occasion, our die is cast, and our fate is sealed; but if successful, alike may Joseph Smith, Hyrum Smith, and their devoted followers, as well as their enemies, expect that justice will be meted out. The present is portentious of the great effort that is to be made upon that occasion, by Joseph for power; Hiram Smith is already in the field as a candidate for the legislature, but will you support him, that same Hyrum Smith the devoted follower and brother of Joe, who feigned a revelation from God, directing the citizens of Hancock County to vote for J. P. Hoge, in preference to Cyrus Walker, and by so doing blaspheming the name of God? Will you, gentlemen of Hancock County, support a man like that, who claims to move in a different sphere, a sphere entirely above you; one who will trifle with the things of God, and feign converse with the Divinity, for the sake of carrying an election? I will unhesitatingly assume to myself the responsibility of answering in the negative. I flatter myself you are not so depraved, and so blinded to your own interests, as to support a man totally ignorant of the laws of your country, and in every respect alienated from you and your interests. 
	In supporting Hyrum Smith, you, Citizens of Hancock County, are supporting Joseph Smith, for whom he (Hyrum) goes teeth and toe nails, for President of the United States. The question may arise here, in voting for Joseph Smith, for whom am I voting? You are voting for a man who contends all governments are to be put down and the one established upon its ruins. You are voting for an enemy to your government, hear Phelps to Joe in his affidavit before Judge King of Missouri - says Joe. You are voting for a sycophant, whose attempt for power find no parallel in history. You are voting for a man who refuses to suffer criminals to be brought to justice, but in the stead thereof, rescues them from the just demands of the law, by Habeas Corpus. You are voting for a man who stands indicted, and who is now held to bail, for the crimes of adultery and perjury; two of the gravest crimes known to our laws. Query not then for whom you are voting; it is for one of the blackest and basest scoundrels that has appeared upon the stage of human existence since the days of Nero, and Caligula. 
	In supporting Hyrum Smith, then are you not supporting Joseph Smith? most assuredly; pause then my countrymen, and consider cooly, calmly and deliberately, what you do? Support not that man who is spreading
death, devastation and ruin throughout your happy country like a tornado. Infinite are the gradations which
marks this man’s attempts for power, which if not checked soon, must not only shed a deleterious influence on the face of this county, but on the face of the adjoining counties. He is already proudly boasting that he is beyond your reach; and I regret to think I am under the painful necessity of admitting the fact. Is it not a shame and a disgrace, to think we have a man in our midst, who will defy the laws of our country; the laws which shed so gentle and nourishing an ifluence upon our fathers, which fostered and protected them in their old age from insult and aggression; shall we their sons, lie still and suffer Joseph Smith to light up the lamp of tyranny and oppression in our midst? God forbid, lest the departed spirits of our fathers, cry from the ground against us. Let us arise in the majesty of our strength and sweep the influence of tyrants and miscreants from the face of the land, as with the breath of heaven. The eagle that is now proudly borne to earth’s remotest regions by every gale, will perch himself in the solitude of mid-night if we do not arouse from our lethargy. 
	It is the worst of absurdities for any individual to say their is a man in our midst who is above the reach of violated law, and not lend a helping hand; all talk and nothing more will not accomplish that for your country and your God, which the acts of Washington did. Then gentlemen organize yourselves and prepare for the dreadful conflict in August; we go with you heart and hand, in the attempt to suppress this contaminating influence which is prostrating our fairest prospects, and spreading desolation throughout our vale. Call into the field your best men under the solemn pledge to go for the unconditional repeal of the Nauvoo Charter, and you have our support; whether they be Whig or Democrat we care not; when a friend presents us with a draught of cool water, we do not stop to inquire whether it is contained in a silver vase, a golden urn or a long handled gourd. We want no base seducer, liar and perjured representative, to represent us in Springfield, but while Murrill represents Tennessee in Nashville, Munroe Edwards, New York, in Sing Sing, Br. Joseph may have the extreme goodness to represent Illinois in Alton, if his lawyers do not succeed in quashing the indictments found against him by the Grand Jurors of Hancock County, at the zzzmay term 1844. 
	FRANCIS M. HIGBEE. 

Mr Richards 
	Sir - If you see fit to comply with Col Richisons sugestion with regard to the Press, you can sF an agent here immediately who I will receipt, for the money when it is paid, or I will receipt for my 1/4 of the concern and all upon my part shall be the same - also Chauncy’s Chauncey L. Higbee’s. 
	The amt demanded for the establishment is $1000, and all shall be well and no more prosecutions. On the other hand all honorable and fair means shall be used to prevent prosecutions 
	Yours 
	Respct 
	F M Higbee
