	Article of Agreement made and entered into at the City of Nauvoo, Illinois, this twenty sixth day of April in the year of our Lord Eighteen hundred and forty one, by and Between William Law of the City of Nauvoo Illinois of the first part, and George Miller, Lyman Wight, John Snider and Peter Haws, building Committee of The Nauvoo House, of the second part, Witnesseth that the party of the first part, for and in considerations of the sums and amounts herein after mentioned, agreeth to build or cause to be built, a house to be Called the Nauvoo House, near the foot of Main Street in the City of Nauvoo, aforesaid, on the Lot where the said house is now commenced which said House is to be built after the manner, size, order, and finish; expressed in the specification hereunto for affixed, and to be built as fast as the above named Committee shall furnish means, 
	And the party of the second part agreeth to pay to the party of the first part the sum of ninety-thousand dollars, to be paid in the following manner, from three thousand to five thousand dollars per month one fourth of which to be in Cash and three fourths in Merchandise and provisions; or any other trade which the party of the first part can dispose of, it is further agreed that the party of the second part shall furnish the Lumber, nails, Tin, glass and Door trimmings which will be necessary for said House, out of the three fourths which is to be in trade, at wholesale Cash price, the remaining part of the above three fourths to be delivered at wholesale price. 
	It is further understood that if the party of the second part shall desire to make any alteration from the specification hereunto affixed, that the party of the first part shall make such alteration, and should such alteration produce additional expense it is to be paid for, or if it reduces the original Cost of the building, it is to be deducted, 
	In witness of which the parties hereunto affix their names and seals the day and year above written 
	Wm. Law. Seal 

I hereby resign my pay as Counseller for the time past and the present year except any fines which may be levied on me - 
	W Law. 

	Resolved that the moneys resigned by the City Council or any part of them, if not disposed of by themselves become a Poor Fund, to be appropriated hereafter for the benefit of the Poor of the City of Nauvoo, 

	Bro. Hunter 
	Dear Sir 
	I am happy to inform you that we are enjoying general good health in Nauvoo, and are greatly blest, etc. - 
	If you bring out an engine perhaps we would buy it of you as we are building a steam mill and may not be suited before you Come the most suitable kind would be 9 inch cilindar, about 4 ½ to 5 ft. Stroke, a double flue boiler 20 to 22 ft. long and 40 to 44 zzzin. diametor, if it has been in use a year or two it is none the worse, and would Come Cheaper, large engines are not profitable, about a 12 horse power is best - If you could bring Bro. Joseph a Lot of goods it were well, as they would help him do the place good, and be no loss to you. - 
	Yours ever Wm. Law, 
	I wrote you some time ago to deposite the am’t of your note ($1100,00) in the Bank in Phild. where you left my name. Should that Bank not be safe get the paper with my name on it and deposite in some safe Bank, - or else bring the money with you when you Come. 
	Yours Wm. Law. 

	Moved that the act ordering that Part of Hibbard Street which runs through Kimball’s addition 1 ½ block north of the old La’Harp Road, be annulled, unless the damages be paid, before the Street be opened, 

	An Ordce Concerning Brothels and Disorderly Characters 
	Sec. 1 - Be it ordained by the City of Col of the City of Nauvoo that all Brothels or houses of ill fame erected or being in the City of Nauvoo be and the same hereby are henceforth prohibited and by Law declared public Nuisances, and that the owners or keepers of such houses be fined in a sum of not less than five hundred, nor more than Fifty Thousand Dollars and imprisoned for 6 Months for each offence of one day’s Continuance of such establishment, and that any person frequenting such establishment (except on lawful business) shall be fined in the sum of five hundred dollars, and six months imprisonment for each offence. and further that for every act of Adultery or fornication which can be proved, the parties shall be imprisoned Six months and fined each in the sum of from 500 to Fifty thousand dollars, and that the individual’s own acknowledgement shall be considered sufficient evidence in the case - 

	To the Honbl. the Mayor and City Council of Nauvoo 
	We your Petitioners by the privilege of erecting butments and Piers in the Mississippi River between Locust Street and the next street North, for the indispensible use and Convenience of the Steam mill Now being Erected between the above named streets on the river beach not infringing upon the Rights of the Ferry. - With Respect 
Wm Law 

	The Committee on Claims would recommend that twelve dollars be allowed to H. G. Sherwood (the City Marshall.) for services during the time within specified. - 
	Wm. Law 

Moved that this Council tender a vote of Thanks to Gen. John C. Bennett for his great zeal in having good and Wholesome laws adopted for the government of this City, and for the faithful discharge of his duty while Mayor of the City Same, 

The Committee on Claims do not recommend the passage of this bill 
	Wm Law 

The Committee on Claims Recommend that this Bill be allowed - 
	Wm. Law. 

	Moved that this Council pass a vote of approbation of the Conduct and of Alderman Sam H. Smith while holding said office in this City - 

Moved that a City Pound be established in the City of Nauvoo. - 

that the duty of the Pound Keeper in this City shall be, To keep in rediness a sufficient yard or pound, to receive any animal or animals which may be brought to said Pound, to receive such animal or animals as may be brought giving them sufficient feed and water, to advertise them immediately, for sale at a Certain day if not redeemed by paying charges and damage, as the case may be giving a description of them in the advertisement - . He is to collect no bill of damages unless it has been assessed by three disinterested men under oath. He shall have for keeping a horse on hay and water every 24 hours 25 cts. and all other animals in the same ratio according to what they require, His fees for advertising and selling shall be the same as that of a Constable for like services 
	Should the sale amount to more than costs and damages he will place the balance in the City treasury subject to the demand of the owner of the animal, 

Be it and it is hereby ordained by the City Council of the City of Nauvoo that no Citizen of this City, shall be taken out of the City by any writ, without the privilege of investigation before the Municipal Court, and the benefit of a writ of Habeus Corpus, as granted in the Seventhenth Section of the Charter of this City, 
	Be it understood that this ordinance is enacted for the protection of the citizens of this City, that they may in all cases have the rights of trial in this City, and not be sujected to illegal process by their Enemies, 

Committee on claims recommend that this account be allowed. 
	Wm. Law P, C, 

Deed 
Willm Law to Hy zzza Buckwalter for East 1/2 L3 in L148 in the City of Nauvoo 
This Indenture made and entered into this eleventh day of July A.D. 1843 between William Law of the County of Hancock and State of Illinois, of the one part, and Henry zzza Buckwalter of the County of Hancock aforesaid of the other part Witnesseth that the said William Law for and in consideration of the Sum of Two hundred dollars to him in hand paid by the said Henry zzza Buckwalter, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hath granted, bargained, and sold, and by these presents doth grant bargains, sell, alein and confirm unto the said Henry zzza Buckwalter, and to his heirs and assigns for ever. All that tract or parcel of land situate in the City of Nauvoo Hancock County and state aforesaid being the East half of Lot zzzno three (3) in Block zzzno one hundred and forty eight. (148) To Have and to hold the above described premises, with all the privileges and appurtenances thereunto belonging or in any wise appertaining, unto him the said Henry zzza Buckwalter and his heirs and assigns for ever Provided always that these presents are upon this express condition that if the said William Law, his heirs, executors, or administrators, shall pay or cause to be paid to the said Henry zzza Buckwalter, his heirs or assigns the Sum of Two hundred dollars with ten per cent Interest per Annum, within one year from this date, together with the interest, in manner particularly specified in a certain note bearing even date herewith, executed by the said Wm. Law to the said Henry zzza Buckwalter then and from thenceforth, these presents and every thing herein contained shall cease, and be void, any thing herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding In Witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal the day and year first above written 
	William Law, Seal 
	Twelve months after date I promise to pay to Henry zzza Buckwalter the Sum of Two hundred dollars with ten per ct., Interest per annum. for value received as set forth in a certain Mortgage of even date with this note, and being the same, Nauvoo Ill. July 11th. One thousand eight hundred forty three 
	William Law
 

