In an assembly of the Saints in the house of the Lord, the following business was transacted by the Church, N. K. Whitney the Bishop of the Church in Kirtland, stated to the Saints that the time had now arraved when it was necessary for him to have an agent, agreeable to the provisions made for him in the revelations, he proceded to nominate Elder William Marks, and then Called upon the Church to know if it was their minds that Elder Marks Should officiate as Agent to the Bishop, Voted in the affirmative. by the unanymous voice of the Church, 
Pres. Rigdon then stated that it was necessary that the Church should have a general recorder and Clerk, to fill the place of zzzo Cowdery who had lately removed to the west, George W. Robinson was nominated and elected by a unanymous voice of the Church, to act in that office as general Clerk and recorder of the whole Church. Pres. Rigdon made some remarks upon the duties responsibility etc. of the Bishop his Agent and Councilors, and the nesessity of their standing forth immediately to degnify their office, After some remarks by Presidents Smith and Rigdon and others upon the disipline of Children, etc. the administration of the Lords Supper being attended to, the meeting Closed by a benediction from the Bishop. - 
G.W. Robinson. Clerk of the - Church 

	A conference of Elders constituting of all the authorities of the Church of Latter Day Saints; convened in the Lords house in Kirtland for the purpose of electing and ordaining a president to preside over the quorum of Elders, in the place of Elder Beman Diseaced, 
Pres. Joseph Smith Sen. (who presided) then Nominated Elder Ruben Hadlock, Elder Hadlock was seconded, and elected by a unanymous voice of the conferance, The Pres. then chose Elder B Young and Asael Smith to assist him in ordaining Elder Hadlock to this office, 
After prayer conf. adjourned, 
	G. W. Robinson Clerk and record 

This morning Prests Smith and Rigdon and myself, were invited to attend the High Council; and accordingly attended, the buisness before the high council, was the trial of case appealed, from the branch of the Church, near gymans horse mill; Whereas Jackson was plantiff, and Aaron Lyon defendant. Council called to order. T B. Marsh and. D W. Patten, Presiding, It appeared in calling the council to order, that some of the seats were vacated; the council then proceeded to fill those seats: etc. And as there appeared to be no persons to fill Said Seats, Eligible to that office; Presidents Smith and Rigdon, were strongly solisited to act as councilors, or to Preside, and let the then presiding officers sit on the council; etc. They accepted of the former proposal, and accordingly Prest. Smith was choosen to act on the part of the defence, and to speak upon the case, togeth with Geo. W. Harris. Prest. Rigdon, was chosen to act on the part of the prossecution, and to speak upon the case together with Geo. M. Hinkle, after the council was organized, and opned by prayer; the notorious case of Aaron Lyon, was called in question; after some arbitrarious speeches, to know whether witnesses should be admitted, to testify against a Lyon, or whether he should have the privilege of confessing his own Sins, It was desided; that witnesses Should be admited, and also the writen testimony of the wife of Said Jackson. Naw as to this man Lyon, it is a well known fact, and without contradiction, that he has been in transgression ever Since he first came into Kirtland, which is some four, or five years since, as appeared this day, by different witnesses, which are unimpeacible. Witnesses against this man Lyon, were these 1,st Sarah Jackson, wife of said plantiff, Jackson. an Br. Best: also Br. Roundy. Br John P. Barnand: also Br. Thomas Girmon; also Br Benjamin, and the plantiff; Which testimony says, Whereas, the plantiff, had some time last season, sent his wife from Alton, Illinois, to this country as he himself could not come, at that time, accordingly his wife Mrs Jackson, came and settled in the branch first above mentioned, Now this man Lyon had settled in this branch also, and was their presiding high priest, and had gained to himself great influence in and over that branch, and it also appears that this man had great possessions, and (if we may judge from testimony given this day) calculates to keep them let the saints necessities be what they may, and it also appears that this man was in want of a wife (if actions bespeak the desires of any man) consequently set his wits to work to get one, he commences by getting (as he said,) revelations from God, that he must marry Mrs Jackson, or that she was the woman to make his wife, and it appeared that these revilations were frequently received by him, and shortly introdused to Mrs. Jackson, It also was manifested that the old man had sagasity enough to know; that unless he used his priestly office, to assist him in accomplishing his designs, he would fail in the attempt; he therefore told Mrs. Jackson that he had a had a revelation from god that her husband was dead etc. and that She must concent to marry him, or she would be forever miserable; for he had seen her future state of existance, and that she must remember, that whomsoever he blessed, would be blessed, and whom soever he cursed, would be cursed, influencing her mind if possible, to believe his power was sufficient, to make her forever miserable; provided she complied not with his request. etc. Accordingly, they came to an agreement, and were soon to be married, but fortunately or unfortunately for both parties previous to the nuptial arrival of the day, Behold!! to the asstonishment of our defendant, the husband of Mrs. Jackson arrived at home, and consequently, disanuled the proceedings of the above alluded parties, the old gentleman Lyon, at this time (if not before,) knew verry well, that his god who gave these revelations, (if revelations he had,) must of course be no less than the devil, and in order to paliate the justice of his crime, sadled the whole burden upon the devil, that in scourging the person, who had previously befriended him, and counseled him in his former days; peradventure he might extricate himself from the Snare, of his own setting, and dictation. But, alas!! to late for the old man, the testimony, being closed, and the Sword of Justice, began to be unsheathed, which fell upon the old man like a scourge of ten thousand lashes, wielded by the hand of President S. Rigdon and George M. Hinkle, inspired by the spirit of justice, accompanied with a flow of elequence, which searched for the feelings, like the sting of so many scorpions, which served to atone for past iniquity. there were no feelings that were not felt after, there were no sores that were not probed, there were no excuses rendred that were not exceptionable. After Justice had ceased to weild its sword, Mercy then advanced to rescue its victom, which inspired the heart of President J. Smith Jr, and Geo W. Harris who, with profound elequence with a deep and sublime thought, with clemency of feeling, spoke in faivour of the defendant, but in length of time, while mercy appeared to be doing her utmost, in contending against justice, the latter at last gained the ascendency, and took full possession of the mind of the speaker, who leveled a voley of darts, which came upon the old man, like a huricane upon the mountain tops, which seemingly, was about to sweep the victom entirely out of the reach of mercy, but amidst the clashing of the sword of Justice, mercy still claimed the victom, and saved him still in the church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, and in this last kingdom Happy is it for those whose sins (like this mans) goes before them to Judgement, that they may yet repent and be saved in the Kingdom of our God. Council decided, that inasmuch as this man, had confessed his sins, and asked for, forgiveness, and promised to mark well the path of his feet, and do, (inasmuch as lay in his power.) what God, Should required at his hands. accordingly, it was decided, that he give up his license as High Priest, and stand as a member in the Church, this in consequence of his being concidered not capable of dignifying that office, etc Council Adjourned 
Geo. W. Robinson, Scribe 

	NOTICE. 
	Agreeable to the proceedings of a general Conference of the authorities of the church of Jesus Christ of Latter day saints, assembled in the city Far West, April 6th 1838, at the first quarterly conference held in this place. It becomes my duty to give some information to the ordained members of this church, with respect to licenses, etc. All licenses whether that of an elder, priest, teacher; or deacon, must be given by the general Recorder, and signed by the first presidency, and general clerk otherwise they will be considered null and void, or without authority. 
	Certificates, however can be given to those who are ordained, where it is inconvenient to obtain licences at the time, which certificates, when presented to the general recorder, will entitle him to a license. It is also necessary to have all licenses recorded on the general church record. It is further necessary for all persons receiving or taking licenses from any individual in consequence of ill behavior; to send such license to the general recorder, in order to have it erased from the docket, or record. If the licenses of any persons are called for officially; in consequence of their misbehavior, and such persons refuse to give them up, then it is the duty of such Court or officer, authorized to take such license or licenses to give information accordingly, to the general recorder, that his license may be killed, and he published to the world. 
	It is the duty of the Clerk of each branch of the church, not yet organized into a stake by the first presidency to send a record of the names of said branch. And also the most interesting part of said history such as miracles etc. to the Clerk of the nearest stake, or to such as they may be attached. 
	It is the duty of the Clerk and recorder of each stake of Zion, to preserve in order the records under his hands, that, he has the names of the individuals belonging to, or with in his jurisdiction in alphabetical order, so that the general recorder can obtain them with ease. They will also please to observe and keep their record with an index or in such order, that the matter wanted, at any time, can be had with as little trouble as possible. - 
And further that every Clerk and recorder, notice in his record every interesting incident or such as his president, or the presidents of such stake may think proper, so that the same may be noticed in its proper sequence in the general church history, which will undoubtedly be published from time to time, as the Church progresses. Also let them furnish the general Clerk and recorder every quarterly Conference with a transcript of all their records, or else such stake will not be noticed in the general history. 
	GEORGE. W. ROBINSON, 
	General Clerk and Recorder. 

To the Saints gathering into Zion: - 
	It is of importance that they should return their names to the recorders of the different stakes, in order that their names may be had in the general Church record. - Many have come and have settled at a distance without returning their names to the recorders of the stakes, in which they have settled. Thus rendering it very difficult for the general church record to be kept. 
	It is expected that all the saints coming up to this land, or gathering into Zion; will have their names recorded on the records of the respective stakes, where they may settle. 
	We further say to the saints gathering, that the rumors which have gone abroad of the scarcity of provisions in this part of the country, is absolutely false - there is a great abundance, and the present appearance for corn, was never surpassed in any part of the United States. 
	Therefore you need not fear, but gather yourselves together unto this land, for there is, and will be an abundance. 
Done by order of the first presidency, 
	GEO. W. ROBINSON, SCRIBE. 

	The first Presidency Judge Higbee (as surveyor,) Started this morning for the halfway house (as it is called) Kept br. Littlefield, some 14 or 15 miles from Far West directly north, For the purpose of appointing a city of Zion, for the gathering of the saints in that place, for safety and from the storm which will soon come upon this genneration, and that the bretheren may be together in the hour of the coming of the son of man and that they may receive instructions to prepare them for that great day which will come upon this generation as a thief in the knight,
There is great exitement at present among the misourians seeking if possible an accasion against us they are continually chafing us, and provoking us to anger if possible, one sene of threatning after another. but we do not fear them 
For the Lord God the eternal Father is our God and Jesus the mediator is our saviour, and in the great I am, is our strength and confidence we have been driven time after time and that without cause and smitten again and again, and that without provocation, until we have prooved the wordd with kindness, and the wordd proved us, that we have no designs against any man or set of men That we injure no man. That we are peasibl with all men, minding our own buisness, and our buisness only, we have Suffered our rights and our liberties to be taken, from us, we have not avenged ourselves of those wrongs, we have appealed to magistrates, to Sheriffs, to Judges, to govonours and to the President of the United States, all in vain, yet we have yealded, peacibly to all these things, we have not complained at the great God, we murmured not, but peacibly left all, and retired into the back Country in the broad and wild Prairie, in the barren and desolate plains, and there commenced anew, we made the desolate places to bud and blosom as the rose, and now the fiend like rase are disposed to give us no rest, Their Father (the Devil) is hourly calling upon them to be up and doing, and they like willing and obedient children need not the second admonition, But in the name of Jesus Christ the Son of the Living God we will endure it no longer, if the Great God will arm us with courage, with strength and with power, to resist them in their persecutions. We will not act on the offensive but always on the defensive, our rights and our rights and our liberties shall not be taken from us, and we peacibly submit to it, as we have done heretofore, but we will avenge ourselves of our enimies, inasmuch as they will not let us alone, But to return again to our subject We found the place for the city, and the bretheren were instructed to gather immediately into it, and soon they should be organised according to the Laws of God, A more particular history of this city will be given hereafter, perhaps at its organization and dedication, - 
We found a new route home saving I should think 3 or 4 miles, we arrived at Far West about Day light down 

The first Presidency attended worship as usual the fore part of the Day, Prest. Smith did not attend in the after part of the day, but retired to Prest. Smiths. to examine the church records. Br. Joseph spent some considerable part of the afternoon in company with a gentlemen from Livingston County, who had become considerable exited, on account of a large collection of people saying to take Joseph Smith Jr. and Lyman Wight, for going to one Adam Blacks. as has been previously stated, and recorded in this record, and as they said Prest. Smith and Col. Wight, had resisted the officer, who had endeavoured to take them etc. and accordingly these men were assembling to take them (as they said) They are collecting from every part of the Country to Daviess County. report says they are collecting from Eleven Counties, to help take two men who had never resisted the Law or officer, neither thought of doing so, and this they knew at the same time, or many of them at least, This looks a leettle to much like mobocracy, it foretells some evil intentions, the whole uper Missouri is all in an uproar and confusion, This evening we sent for General Atchison of Liberty Clay County, who is the major General of this division, we sent for him to come and counsil with us, and to se if he could not put a stop to this collecion of people, and to put to a stop to hostilities in Daviess County, we also sent a letter to Judge King containing a petition, for him to assist in putting down and scattering the mob, which are collecting at Daviess, 

	Nothing of importance transpired this day, only reports concerning the collection of the mob. in Daviess County Which in part has been collecting and collected ever since the election in Daviess which was on the sixth of August last as has been heretofore mentioned. 
This evening General Atchison arrived in Town 

This day was spent in council with the Gen. He says he will do all in his power to disperce the mob. etc. We employed him and Doniphan (his partner) as our Lawyer and counselor in Law, They are concidered the first Lawyers in the Uper Missouri, Prest. Rigdon and myself commenced this day the studay of Law under Generals. Atchison and Doniphon 
They think by dilligent application we can be admitted to the bar. in twelve months. The result of the council was, that, Prest. Smith and Col. Wight volunteer and be tried by Judge King in Daviess County (Col Wight.) being present being previously notified to attend the council. Accordingly Thursday next was appointed for the trial, and word to that amount, was sent to Judge King (who had priviously agreed to volunteer and try the case) to meet all at br. Littlefields. near the county line south of Daviess, 

Judge King came to town, on his way to Daviess, to meet the above named engagement Gen. Atchison had gone before Judge King arrived, the Judge stayed all knight, 

Prest. Smith repaired to br. Littlefields to stand trial, he was accompanied by several of the bretheren among whom was Prest. Hyram Smith Judge E. Higbee and myself etc. etc. Prest Smith thought it not wisdom to make his appearance before the public in consequence of the many threats made against him and the high state of exitement in that place, The trial could not go on in consequence of the absence of the Plaintiff and lack of testimony, consequently the court adjourned till tomorrow at 10 Oclock at A Mr. Raglins some 6 or 8 miles farther south, and also he is a real mob character, he lives within one half mile of Caldwell County line, We all returned this evening to Far West, 

	We all met at Raglins agreeable to adjournment, 
	We did not know but there would be a distirbance among the mob characters, today, we accordingly had an army of men placed at the county line so as to be ready at a minuits warning if there should be any difficulty at the trial, the trial commenced Mr. Penningston who was the prossecutor had no witnesses but Adam Black who contrived to swear a great may things that never had an existace until he swore them and I presume, never entered the heart of any man And in fine I think he swore by the Job. (as he was employed so to do by Penningston.) 

The witnesses on the part of the defence was Dimick B. Huntington, Gideon Carter Adam Lightner and myself, The Judge bound Prest Smith and Col. Wight over to court in a five hundred dollar bond, there was no proof against them criminal, but it is suposed he did it to pasify as much as possible the feelings of the mobers. he (the Judge) stating after in my presence that there was nothing proven against them worthy of bonds, but they submitted without murmering a word, gave the bonds with sufficient securities, and all returned home the same evening, We found two persons in Daviess at the trial, from, which Gentlemen were sent from Charriton County as a committe to enquire into all this matter. as the mobers had sent to that place for assestance, they said to take Smith and Wight, but their object was to drive the brethren from the County of Daviess as was done in Jackson County, They said the people in Charriton did not se proper to send help without knowing for what purpose they were doing it, and this they said was their errand, They came home with us, to hold a council with us, in order to learn the facts of this great exitement, which is as it were turning the world up side down, 

	The Presidency met in council with the committe above named, from Charriton County, together with General Atchison, where a relation was given of this whole matter, the present state of exitement and the cause of all this confusion, These Gentlemen expressed their fullest sattisfaction upon this matter considering they had been outrageously imposed upon, in this matter, They left this afternoon appearntly perfectly sattisfied with the interview, News came this evening that the mob were to attack Adam Ondi Awman, 

This morning a company in addition to what went last evening went to Adam Ondi Awman to assist the bretheren there in their defence against the mob. Capt. Wm Alred took a company of ten men, all mounted, and went to entrsect a team with guns and amunition from Richmond for the mob in Daviess, they found the wagon broke down and the boxes of guns drawn into the high grass near by the wagon no one present that could be discovered, in a short time two men horse back came from towards the camp of the mob and immediately behind them was a man with a wagon, they all came up and were taken by virtue of a writ supposing them to be the men who were abetting the mob. in carying the guns and amunition to those murderers, Yea and murderers to! in cool blood,
The men were taken together with the guns to Far West the guns were destributed among the bretheren for their defence, and the prisoners were held in custorday, 
This was a glorious day indeed the plans of the mob were fruustrated in loosing their guns, and all their efforts appeared to be blasted, or blast before carried into effect, The mob continue to take prisioners at their pleasure some thy keep and some they let go, they try all in their power to make us commit the first act of violence they freeqently send in word that they are tortureing the prisioners to death, in the most agravvating manner, but we understand all their ways, and their cunning and wisdom is not past finding out 

	Today we proceeded to trial of those prisioners they said they wished for an opportunity of getting bail so as to obtain counsil; they were given to understand that no bail could be taken, for this purpose, but that he could have a sufficient time to send for counsil if he wished, the court accordingly adjourned until Wendnessday following, 
The Prisioners names were John B Comer Alem Miller Wm. L McHaney, They were braught before Albert Petty a Justice of the Peace in Far West 

MESSRS. BARTLETT and SULLIVAN. - 
	Gentlemen, - I wish through your paper, to respond to an article published in the same of the 9th. inst. as rumor - embracing my name (in connection with others,) as having been expelled from the Church of Latter Day Saints, joining Bennett's party, etc., etc. 
	I would say that I have had no knowledge of such an token whatever, and have not been advised of any difficulty existing between the Church and myself in any legal manner - It is true that I have been pretty roughly handled in the CONGREGATION OF SAINTS, for what offence, I KNOW NOT: but I have some times thought, I might (in the providence and great wisdom of - ), have been selected as a SCAPE goat, to carry the sins of OTHERS.
	I have for a long time desired that some FRIEND would inform me for what purpose that SCANDALOUS attacks have, at several times, been made on myself, in connection with Mr. Rigdon, but have at last concluded as above. I will, however, leave all for the public to decide when they shall both see and hear the TESTIMONY. I must acknowledge myself a frail being, and am not easily persuaded to surrender my rights to others. My father served in the war of the Revolution, and flinched not in the contest for Freedom! He shall not blush to hear that his son ever failed to maintain it. I say this with all due deference to Prophets, Priests, Kings and Rulers. 
	As to Bennett's party, and the conspiracy against this people, I only say. FUDGE - NOT GUILTY. God forbid I ever should conspire to injure the innocent, and the law is all sufficient for the guilty, (If any there are.) 
	Since then. Bennett's withdrawal from the Church, I have understood that a Resolution has been passed prohibiting all withdrawals from the church; so if a member wishes to withdraw, he must be expelled and published to the world; this I believe is now the statute of the Church. I now take the opportunity to say to ALL men, before my Maker, that I neither desire nor consider myself, any longer a member of said Church of Latter Day Saints. If necessary, I shall give my resolve for withdrawal at some future time; if not, I shall remain silent. Very respectfully, 
Your ob't serv't. 
GEO W. ROBINSON. 

Mr Joseph Smith: 
	Sir - I condescend to reply to your compliments of this morning not however because I think you worthy of such condescension, but that I may perhaps through you make known my own faith concerning yourself. 
	Sir, do you imagine that an idiot could not see your baseness in this attempt to injure my feelings as well as my reputation? Is it not notorious that you have for nearly three years, used your power to the utmost to obtain the post office, and do you think, sir, that this attempt of which you speak, and of what you say you will do, will not be looked upon as tending to the same object? You say you will do the utmost in your power to expose me to the public. But sir, would you not first do well to remove the stigma on your own character, or employ some kind friend of yours, who can bear a scrutinizing eye without the crimson blush of shame? My conscience is void of offence against the laws of my country, or the insinuations of which you speak, notwithstanding your ‘believe so's, your think so's, or your guess so's I fear not your power, my dear sir; neither shall I shrink or be intimidated by you, - nought of personal violence, save the assassin's steel, will harm a hair of my head, and for this I am duly prepared. 
	With regard to my privately injuring you, I say bring forth your testimony, all I have said or done has been public, and you yourself have, or can, see it, as well as others - and with regard to the balance of your calumny I have only to say, Bah! how can others believe that which you yourself do not believe? 
Your's, with contempt, 
	GEO. W. ROBINSON. 

Genl Joseph Smith 
Dear Sir 
	I was coming down to Your city, to see if some settlement could not be made about the Granger affair - but it is such very bad going I cannot come at present, and feeling somewhat interested, I take the present opportunity of Saying to You, and through You to Carlos Granger, that I am anxious to have that matter settled, I have executed a deed and left it with Mr Rigdon to agreeable to our settlement, (that is) between You, Hyrum, and Esqr Warren - which gives him all that I had not sold, and more than pays him for what he has payed me, he can give the bond and recpts to Mr Rigdon when he gets the deed, The reason why I urge this matter is this, I want him to have all the land he has payed for and no more, but I am bound with some others, in a bond of some four thousand and five hundred dollars, which I expect (from what I can learn) may give me trouble this spring, now that land is in my name and in my right, and stands so on the records at Carthage, and is just as liable for my debts as any other of my lands, which may all be swept from my possession, So I wish him to get the deed on record immediately, which will undoubtedly save him his land and a Lawsuit with my creditors - 
	Your Friend - 
	George W. Robinson 
Genl J. Smith
