	The summary execution, of two of the Mormon leaders, Joseph and Hiram Smith, at Carthage, on the 27th of June, has excited a deep unrest abroad as well as at home, and has brought upon us the severest invective of nearly the whole news paper press, as far as we have yet heard. 
From the almost unanimous expression, of the papers that have reached us, we doubt not, that the same indignant cry of “cold blooded murder,” will be echoed from one extreme of our wide spread Union to the other. If all the facts connected with that Dreadful tragedy, together with the dark and damning provocations that aroused the avengers wrath, had been correctly published to the world, we might have bowed in silence to all the bitter vituperation that the most censorious could heap upon us; but when we find the virtuous, the intelligent and the moral, of all classes, and all communities - ignorant of the particular circumstances of the case - are swelling the tide of popular prejudice, we feel that it is due to them, to ourselves, to Truth, and to Justice, that we are heard in our own defence. 
	We hold it to be a self evident proposition, that laws are enacted for the safety and protection of the rights, lives and property of those who are to be governed by them. We hold moreover, that so long as those laws can afford such protection, it is the duty of every good citizen to abide by their direction and to uphold their supremacy; but that whenever, by a train of circumstances, which our Legislators never could have anticipated, the law is rendered ineffectual and cheated out of its efficacy, there is an impulse planted by God and Nature in every bosom, which prompts men to throw themselves, for protection, on their reserved rights. The law owes us protection, in consideration of which we owe it allegiance. If it fails to perform its offices towards us, we are, to the extent of that failure, absolved from its requisitions. 
	In every age, and in every nation, it has been the highest crime known to the law, for one man to take the life of another, but wherever such an act is done in self defense it is justified; and why: Because in such case the law could afford no protection to the life of the individual threatened; therefore, God and Nature says to every man, "Protect thyself." What is true in relation to individuals, we hold equally true when applied to communities. 
	The public may not be generally aware of the peculiar situation in which the people of Hancock County, Illinois, have been placed for the last four years. On the one hand, we beheld a body of men, bound together by all the strong bands of superstition and knavery - acknowledging the dictation of one man as supreme in all matters, both spiritual and temporal - committing the most aggravated aggressions on the rights and property of their neighbors, harboring and protecting counterfeiters, horse thieves and blacklegs - having in their employ a sworn band of assassins, who in more instances than one, have attempted the lives of persons obnoxious to them - by their threats, rendering and property of of the laws. They of satisfaction, and signified with unanimous acclamation that they would stand by me in taking a strictly legal course. 
	All the other portions of the Hancock forces under my command were repeatedly and deeply pledged to sustain me in the some course. Under the firm and confidant assurance of support thus obtained I demanded the surrender of the Smiths, and promised them security. In doing so, I now acknowledge that I erred and erred greviously, in relying with too much confidence upon men with whom I was but little acquainted. The idea that men could be treacherous under such circumstances was abhorent to my nature and rejected with indignation. Whatever your hatred of the Smiths might be, I was too confident you would respect your honor - the honor of your county and State and the rights of defenceless prisoners I could not believe that so much stupidity and baseness as was necessary for such an enterprise as the murder of defenseless prisoners in jail could be mustered in Hancock. What aggravates the transaction, as a matter personal to my honor as well as your own, and that of the State; and selected a time to commit the deed when you believed I was in Nauvoo, in the power of the Mormons, and would most probaly be murdered by them, by way of retaliation. Upon the whole I cannot too strongly express my indignation and abhorence of the base and profligate act which has disgraced the State, and raised suspicions in the minds of many in regard to matters of a painful character to my feelings. 
	I am happy however to learn that these denunciations apply only to a small portion of Warsaw and Hancock county. All the most responsible inhabitants ought to be aquitted of any direct participation with the conspirators. If they are culpable at all it is for not using their influence against the act and for not communicating to me information which would have enabled me to prevent it. The intention of the people must to some extent have been whispered about and understood, and ought to have been communicated to me as commander in chief. 
	Under these circumstances, I am in but a poor situation to use influence with the Mormons, to produce their removal. Your own people have destroyed whatever influence I might otherwise have possessed in that quarter to serve you. Your own conduct has placed me in a painfully suspicious attitude; and I have no hope that I could now have a more persuasive influence with the Mormons, then I had with the perpetrators of the horrid deed which I sought to prevent. Under the circumstances, I cannot ask the Mormons to confide in me. 
	It must appear to them that they have been betrayed by somebody, and they do not know by whom. 
	If you mean to request me to exercise a forcible influence to expel them from the State; I answer you now as I have uniform - the mysterious and supernatural: all powerful engines in raising converts to new creeds. In connection with the greatest flummery that ever emenated from the human mind, was a careful admixture of a few simple, and known truths. Thus got up, their system of imposture was calculated to take well with such as would make admirable followers of such leaders. 
	But with them as a religious sect, we have nothing to do. Absurd and Loathsome as is their creed, it might forever have been enjoyed without molestation, from any of us. We may have ridiculed, pitied and despised the infatuated credulity of such as put their faith in it, but we have never persecuted. When in the name of the Lord they oppressed us, it was the oppressor, and not the priest we resisted - when the doom of destruction was pronounced, it was the Demon of destruction, not the Seer that we rose to combat - it was the murderer, the robber, the adulterer, and not the heaven daring blasphemer, that we wished to bring to punishment. 
	From their first organization as a distinct community, they have been going from one extreme to another - from one atrocity to another, modifying their ridiculous creed to suit their peculiar condition. 
	A circumstance that tells strongly against them, may be found in the fact, that they have brought serious difficulties upon every community in which they have lived. Thrice, in the short space of ten years, have they been forced to remove their quarters - once from Ohio, and twice from different portions of Missouri. All the dark spirits of crime, have attended their steps; and scourged every land where they have sojourned. Ohio and Missouri were blamed for driving them off. The cry of "religious persecution," - the sure key to the sympathies of an unwary public, was raised in their behalf, and we among others, were bitter in our denunciations against Missouri for expelling them, from her borders. We took them in, gave them shelter, supplied their wants. Five years have passed, and the helpless band of exiles that sought our hospitality in the inclement season of winter, have become the most powerful people that ever organized in a distinct community, under our republican institutions. We have had plenty of leisure to study their character; and long since have learned enough to justify their expulsion from Missouri, and to cause us to blush for our own credulity in suffering ourselves to be so easily, so deeply and so shamefully duped. We nourished a viper, and it had no sooner warmed into life than, true to its nature, it turned to destroy its preserver. 
	Since their appearance among us, the arrogance of their leader had greatly increased. He brought with him political power and influence, and a disposition to make that power and that influence tell on the destinies of his people; and there were found selfish and unprincipled politicians in both parties willing to aid his designs. All the tact, talent and cunning profligate navery could command, were set at work, adding daily fuel to the inordinate raging in his boties having no knowledge fawned which existed, or the necessity for the step, as a “high handed outrage,” a “dastardly assassination,” “murder in cold blood” etc. These epithets are undeserved. True it is, when we look at the naked transaction, without knowing and feeling the situation of this community, and the thousand and one outrages on the rights of our citizens committed by the men whose blood has been shed - the burning desire to avenge individual wrongs, which doubtlessly goaded on many who were concerned in the act - the feverish state of the public mind, which had continued so long as almost to produce a mania - the common street declarations of some of our most respectable citizens, that the act ought to be done, and that the perpetrators would not only be protected but honored - the hope of all, that arms having been taken up, they would not be laid down, until the Mormons had been exterminated, and the disappointment, and consequent rage when the order came to disband, without having affected any thing towards the great object for which they spent their time and money; we say, that without taking any of these circumstances into consideration the act may appear without justification. We trust trust however, that a generous public will not form too hastily, and upon a mere partial view of the subject, so harsh a verdict. We hold it to be a self evident proposition, that the law of God and Nature is above the law of man. There is an uncontrolable impulse in the human bosom, which prompted every man to prefer his own safety and property before the law of the land. No one will brand a prisoner is custody for a high crime with having committed an immoral act, because he escapes from the jailor. True he violates the law of the land by so doing; but nature teaches every one, that he commits no crime by prefering his own safety, to it’s provisions. A man may take the life of his fellow man in self defence, and he is justified; and why? because the action of the law, if waited for, would be too tardy to afford protection. Therefore, nature says to every man, “protect thyself, when the law of the land cannot protect.” What is true of individuals in relation to this matter is applicable to communities. We will therefore apply it to the case in point. 
	It is a well known fact, that Joe Smith had eluded every effort which had been made for the last four years to bring him to justice: Writs had been repeatedly issued issued for his apprehension, but, either through the connivance of officers, or by sham legal process he managed in every lined troops of the State, “at the disposal of the Mayor.” 
	Now be at known that Joe Smith was Mayor of said city, and as such, was the head and controller of the law making power - that by virtue of his office of Mayor, he was “conservator of the peace within the limits of said city, having all the powers of a justice of the peace, in both civil and criminal cases arising under the laws of the State” (charter sec 16) - that he had exclusive jurisdiction in all cases arising under the ordinances of the corporation,” from which however, and appeal lay to the Municipal Court, (“under such regulations as may be presented by ordinance,”) which was composed of the Mayor, as chief justice, and the alderman as associate justices, (charter sec. 17.) What would be thought by the world of such a concentration of all the functions of government in the hands of the man; even if he were known to be honest! Look at the effect! In the council Joe Smith made the law - in the courts of the city, he construed, and applied it, and at the head of the Legion of three thousand men, he enforced its execution. And how - with what regard to justice have the laws been made and executed in that Holy city! Let facts answer. Look at the repeated rescues of Joe Smith from the officers of justice, and his acquittal before his own Court on Habeas Corpus - look at the ordinance passed for the special benefit of Joe Smith - look at another ordinance providing for the closest examination into the private affairs of all strangers who might happen for a day to sojourn in their city - look at their treatment of Simpson - of Bagby - of Bennett, and of hundreds of others who had offended his holiness - look at the rescue of Jeremiah Smith a felon, who had been arrested by the officer of the United States - look at their proceedings in the destruction of the Nauvoo Expositor press, and their subsequent resistance of the laws of the State, until forced to submit - look at their whole career amongst us - the repeated cases of robbery committed doubtlessly by order of Smith - the sufferings of the Kilbourns and other anti mormon citizens of Montrose - the bands of horse-thieves throughout the country, who held their headquarters at Nauvoo, where they were protected by Smith for a share of the booty - the driving off the cattle of our citizens, on the prairies - the counterfeiting operations carried on by Smith in Nauvoo, where by ordinance no writs could be executed, unless with his consent - the attempt to kidnap a citizen of Iowa to prevent his appearing as a witness against a mormon horse thief in Missouri - the threats against the lives and property of those of our citizens, who by their determined course had rendered themselves obnoxious to his Holiness and the band of assassins in his employee, titled “Danites;” bound by an oath to do the bidding of Joe Smith in all things, murder and treason, not excepted, as is well known from the testimony of some of its members, as given before the Courts of Missouri. The Municipal court of Nauvoo, by Habeas Corpus, protected Joe Smith and his minions, in all these aggressions and outrages on the peace and safety of society. 
	he had insulted and trampled on law, he even in a time of profound peace eradicated the Civil law within the city, and in lieu there thereafter established Military pre-eminence, which placed the lives and property of all who were in the city, or should visit it, at the disposal of his supreme will. Whilst the City of Nauvoo was under Martial law, he had to driven into it nearly all the cattle within a circuit of ten miles. He appropriated to his own use the property of those of his enemies who by his threats had previously been compelled to leave the city. He took into custody unoffending citizens, who were accused of no crime, and not content with refusing them the necessaries of life, he held them in torturing suspense, by giving them to understand that they were accused of acts which could only be atoned for by their blood. He refused egress to peaceable citizens unless they would take oath not in arms against his power, and that they were no enemies to him or his course. Such is a brief skeleton of the unparalleled outrages of this Heaven daring wretch. What community could endure this state of things, without becoming intoxicated with excitement and rage? 
	But the arm of the Executive was at last compelled to interpose; and the Prophet seeing the determined position of the Governor, suddenly began to feel that he was not unlimited, in authority, and that there was power to assert the majesty of insulted law. Immediately the haughty, proud, vain, and self-sufficient despot, doffed his imperial robes, and manteling himself, in hypocritical humility, he bowed seemingly to the dictates of the law. But could the law reach him? No! Its arm was palsied, and to him it was nothing more than a spider's webb. 
	Joe and Hirum Smith, at the time their lives were taken, were in the custody of the officers of the law; and it is asked by those who condemn the act, why the law was not first allowed to take its course before violence was resorted to? We answered that the course of law in the case of these wretches would have been a mere mockery; and such was the conviction of every sensible man. 
	It is a well ascertained fact, that the prisoners were well provided with fire arms and other weapons. Who is it to be blamed for this, it is unnecessary for our present purpose to inquire. The fact, however, is unquestionable. The jail is situated in the extreme outskirting of the town of Carthage - having that one or two small buildings in its vicinity. The prisoners were confined in the jailer's parlor the windows of which were not bared, and trial, but this is always attended with delay, trouble and expense. In criminal cases however, a change of venue can only be taken by consent of the accused; and no mormon would ever voluntarily go out of Hancock County for justice, as long as he could claim Joe Smith for a friend. Justice! that is all they fear. - Here they have all the immunities that a packed jury, and any desirable number of good witnesses can secure. 
	It may be known, that Joe Smith was indicted at the last term of the Circuit Court for adultery and perjury. It is further known here, that there was evidence enough to indict him in any other County, for many other heinous offences. These indictments were found in May, more than a month previous to the commencement of the war. Yet up to that time, our kind Clerk, had neglected or refused to issue writs on either of these indictments; and it is extremely doubtful whether they were issued at the time of Smith's death. This omission of the Clerk however, is in its effect of but small importance, for if the writs had been issued, Joe would immediately have given bail, and if he had lived to stood his trial, there is not a sensible man conversant with the facts, who doubts but that he would have been honorably acquitted by a jury of his own packing. If this fact is not made sufficiently clear it can and will be done. 
	We will now refer more particularly to events of recent token. During the last spring, many of the most respectable of the brotherhood, having satisfied themselves of Joe's unprincipled rascality; but still adhering to the principles of the mormon creed, seceeded from the Church, and established a press in Nauvoo to expose Joe's iniquities. His saintship, fired with holy indignation; resolved that those men should be put down. Even before the press was established he said, that no paper opposed to his interests, should be published in Nauvoo. The seceeders however, dared to beard the lion in his den, and brave his wrath. One number of the Expositor was issued. It boldly attacked the prophet and other leading saints - exposed their foul deeds and designs, and sustained its charges by proof.
	The tyrant saw that the axe was laid at the root of his power. His impostures would be exposed - his dark deeds of crime would be published, and his influence over his deluded victims lost. All was at stake - the press must be destroyed or he must fall. The council was called together, and after two days solemn deliberation the press was declared a nuisance, and the Legion ordered out to abate it, which was done. Writs were issued for all the leading actors in this outrage, and they refused to submit to the law. The public is already advised of the results. The civil officer summoned the possee comitatus, and Joe fortified himself in the city - declared martial law and put himself in open defiance of the civil authority. The Governor was applied to - the Military called out, headed by his Excellency in person - at last resistance became hopeless and he yielded. Without standing a trial on the charge of riot, he gave bail to appear before the Circuit Court, which set that case either in this State or elsewhere … had they ever in a single instance been brought to justice. Though guilty of almost every crime known to the law, though they had followed robbery, swindling and counterfeiting for a livelihood -though the seduction of virtue and innocence was with them a pastime; though blood was upon their skirts, yet the law had in every instance in which it had been tried, proved utterly ineffectual to bring these robbers, seducers and murderers to justice. 
	If we are to judge of the future by the past, what conclusion could we have come to, under the circumstances, other than that Joe and Hyrum Smith would although in the custody of the officer of the law, have escaped as in every instance heretofore. The fact was demonstrated - the conviction was universal. Under such circumstances, what could have been done? Should we have laid quietly down, and suffered the tyrant to rivet the chains that had already galled us to madness? Should we have submitted passively to be robbed of property and liberty and knowing from the sad experience of the past, that there was no legal redress, spaniel like, licked the hand of our chastizer, and besought his forbearance? Such questions are insulting to freemen. No man through whose vein courses one drop of that noble blood, which promoted our forefathers to throw off the yoke of British oppression, will ask his fellow freeman to kneel at the nod of a tyrant, nor condemn him for asserting his liberty, even if in so doing he is obliged to commit a daring violation of law. 
	We claim, that the community in which we live, is a law abiding community, and that it will go as far to maintain the supremacy of the law as any other in the nation. Our citizens have regretted, and still regret the necessity that existed for taking the law in this particular instance, into their own hands; but that it would sooner or later have to be done, no one acquainted with the facts of the case, could deny. It was inevitable, and the only question was as to the proper time. In relation to this, we will remark, that Joe and Hiram Smith were regarded as the only individuals that could hold together the Mormon community. They were the instigators and authors of all our troubles. The only alternative then was, whether the guilty cause, should be removed and in the natural course of things suffer the evil to eradicate itself; or whether, we should have waited until renewed aggressions, had so far aroused a feeling of hostility, as to provoke the surrounding country to a general war of extermination. Either course, would have been a Intelligence was at the same time received, that all the troops were disbanded except for small companies which would probably be discharged in a day or two. 
	It is certain that these troops were highly dissatisfied - that they thought the Governor had trifled with them - that they thought furthermore, that the evils under which they were laboring, had not been reached, and could only be removed in one of two ways: either by expelling the body of the mormons, or by cutting off their leaders. 
	The mormons could not be expelled as a people without the co-operation of the Governor. True, he had no clearly expressed Constitutional right to drive them off; no one supposed such a right existed; yet the people thought the necessity of the case would justify it; and they still think so. But this could not be done. Joe and Hiram Smith, their acknowledged heads, were in the custody of the law - so far all was well, they had the promise of the Governor's protection; this was not well, and we think was not generally known, until his Excellency proclaimed it after the catastrophe. But what satisfaction could it afford the old citizens of Hancock, to know that Joe was in jail? They know, and the world must know for reasons before given, that they never could be convicted of any crime. We had taken a great deal of trouble to assert and maintain the supremacy of the law, but if the matter rested here, justice might have dispared of his cause. It was this conviction that compressed their execution. Did they deserve death? There can be no doubt in the mind of any intelligent person acquainted with their history. - Evidence enough to damn them fort times over, has been published. Read the history of the Missouri investigation - Bennet's, Harris, Howd's and Tucker's works, the multitude of affidavits which have been published. But this, we think will not be questioned. It is not their death, but the time and the manner - we plead the necessity of the case - we had nothing more to hope from the Executive, until further violence on the part of the mormons demanded his imposition - the law could not reach them - they would soon have been at large. More arrogant and self-sufficient than ever. The late difficulties have added greatly to the two jealousy and hatred of the two parties. All confidence was lost. The old citizens felt that this one man power must be destroyed, now or they themselves, must quietly surrender all their dearest rights and leave the county. They chose a bitter alternative - one revolting to their own sensibilities, but prompted by a high sense of duty to themselves and their County. As to the time and manner, it had to be done then and thus, or not at all. It was supposed that a rescue would be attempted that night, or the next. Circumstances, that have since come to light, have placed that matter above suspicion, and there is not room for a reasonable doubt that if attempted it would have been successful.
 

