	To day I read seven hours in olney's Ruins, reading more than 360 pages. It is an admirable work and well ecuted. 

	Celebrated the aniversary our National Independence Love's, was present; but after the oration was livered, it was aid to be smart but badly given, toasts were decent some very good. Mr. Corey, Marshall. Dr. Crum, President. Dr. Brown, Speaker. 

	Last night had the heaviest thunder and rain we have had in some time, perhaps 4 or 5 years, the creks are very high overflowing several acres of land: some damage done. 
	Our debating school was given up as soon as it went into operation to prevent contention with the rejudiced bigots. 

	The revival meeting a fortnight or more. Some do twenty were converted, princip small boys and very young. Nearly half have allready ret to their wallowing again. 
	Unkle S. H. Dillingham visited lately: we were able to shew him the largest corn in the country though it was planted in June. 

	I have been making records of our debating society. Since it was reestablished it has been prosperous. We have had several sharp debates lately, one last evening. 
	The state of Europe is at this time truly precarious, Poland in a dreadful contest for independence, Englan all in ferment about reform, Belgium in a struggle with foreign ministers even members of her own congress whether to deliver herself to the (un)holy alliance or not. 

	Our debating school is very prosperous though we have but a few speakers. Five is the extent but we expect more soon. 
	Mr. Pearce, an excellent speaker, and my only rival, has gone away. He intends to go on a canal next summer and wishes me to go, at eighteen dollars per month. 
	Not long since Mr. Pearce wrote to me a poetick letter to which I replied in like manner, but only in criticism. At the same time I wrote a song on a subject similar to this letter, which has been common singing with the boys. Since that I have written considerable: today I have been writing a letter which was begun friday evening; it is my masterpiece. Last evening I wrote a song of sixteen lines after debating school. 

	About a week since I wrote to Grand Father, also to Manly. It is wet weather. 

	Last night we had a sharp debate on the question is man more inclined to good than evil? I was never before so wearied with speaking. I have imbibed a habit of speaking very loud, last night was heard distinctly twenty rods in a house. I have a dispute with Mr. Smith the amount of which is, "shall the accuser prove the accused guilty, or shall the accused prove himself innocent?" It arose from the following circumstance: in a debate not long since he accused me of quoting history which I had never read and quoting it falsely. I replied giving him reasons to know I had read it and did quote it right and chalenged him to his proofs. He very modestly replied denying my reasons and giving me liberty to prove the accusations false. Last evening I prepared the way for training him and in reply to me he said he had a right to accuse me of what he pleased and the accusation stood good till proved to the contrary. I shall train him shortly. 

	By a singular change of circumstance I am to be teaching school in Randolph in a few days. I had formerly given up the idea of teaching school at all but am now very earnestly desired to teach for the people in that place and as I intend to make serving the people my business through life I will do it now, yet, this is not business to my mind. Last Saturday I attended the debating school; the question was, "In which is exhibited the greatest curiosity, animate of inanimate life" The affirmative was ably represented by Messrs Warren Smith and Slater; on the negative I had the privilege of speaking alone. The question was hardly contested on both sides; decision for the negative. I had formerly spoken on the same question, and came off where I Went On. 
	I trained Smith a week ago saturday in blank verse, and he bore it patiently. 
	It began as follows: 
	"To him who rides on slander's foaming steeds 
	Who loves to charge a friend with basest deeds 
	Who speaks for naught but wrothful, vengeful wrong 
	Who hopes to rise by slander's blasting tongue" 
	The whole lingo consisted of sixty lines but part of it was so savage I thought it not prudent to recite it in publick. 

	Today I have bought some toys for the school to the amount of $1.20, also a few books; they are - 
	Book of Nature - Good, $1.87 1/2 
	Lexicon of Useful Knowledge 1.50 
	American Constitutions 1.25 
	Life of Napoleon $1.25 
	And a few school books and others of less consequence. The books I bought for company next winter. 
	Tomorrow I shall start for my school. 

	Well I have now set down for one winter; for one winter of hard labour too, I think from the present appearance of weather, for it has snowed steady since I left home, and the snow is here a foot deep and fast falling. I am some tired of wallaring through the mudy snowy roads, but I shall have a resting spell of two days before I begin school. 

	Commenced my school today and had but seven schollars, this is but a small part of the forty promised. The snow continues falling. 

	I have now taught school five weeks and have thirty-five schollars; this is a little more like doing business. I would not care if there were twice that number every day. The school was quite untrained when I came here: not a single schollar knew his place or duty, but I have succeeded in regulating them and learning them what to do, without punishing a single schollar. I have some hope of being able to get along with the school without any considerable difficulty. 
	I wrote to father two weeks ago, and sent for papers. I have not had any news of any consequence since I have been here. I expect some papers from Dr. Simonds who has given to me nearly two years. 
	This is the last day of the year: a year somewhat conspicuous for the great events which have happened, if civil revolutions and contests can be called great events. 
	During the year which is about to close there have been insurrections in allmost every country in Europe. Belgium has gained her independence by accepting Leopold for king. Some of the German States have changed sovereigns: all the rest have been crushed by military force, a fine way of deciding the rights of man. 
	We have had deep snow ever since I have been in this town. 

	Another year has now commenced and I hope it may be a year of greater profit than that which has passed, not that I have reason to despair in looking back on the past time of my life, but I find my improvements less than what they might have been by better use of the same time. I might also have saved some time without lessening my ease, and an accumulation of gain would add much. 
	I expect nothing this year more than a gradual change of circumstances. 

	In looking over the evils of life I confess I am sometimes allmost tired of life. To see men in allmost every station in life seeking to injure each other in every possible manner; perpetually striving with all possible force in matters in which they have no concern; one nation making war upon another merely for conquest, or even military glory; one people propogating its religion by fire and sword; another revileing the first for its cruelty and yet using the more deadly weapons of calumny and slander in its own cause, persecuting by word and act in common life all who dare to believe a little more or a little less than its own standard; parents teaching their own children to believe certain principles without evidence of their truth, and even that it is blasphemy to ask or wish for it; men acting in disguise in all their intercourse with each other, and this to such an extent that the most intimate friend frequently proves to be in heart a most virulent enemy, professing friendship merely to find an excuse for injuring his fellow: in a word to see the human heart a mere puff of air and at the same time a pit of corruption which neither the waters of Syria or India nor even the blood of "The Son of God" can cleanse, it is indeed enough to make one wish himself excluded from the face of man. But this is no painted story nor is one half of the evil yet told; for man has not only dissembled, deceived, made war without cause, given cause to those who dare not or could not defend their rights, and compelled his fellow to believe without evidence or intuition, but he has called the God whom he says delights in goodness and will punish all evil doers, to be a witness and a helper in his evil deeds; he has made him a partner in his contentions and his strifes, to be the author and the lover of evil; to be changeable minded; to be capable of willing acting and repenting of it; to be affected passions like his own, and indeed he has completely made him in his own image morally and physically and then has declared that God made man in his image. Such is the human heart changeable and poluted in the best of men and in their best times. Among such beings is my lot cast. I, like the rest. I am ashamed of it but it is allmost true, not quite. 
	Is it possible that any one should wish for eminence who believes all this? Yes, it is possible; it is true. I ask no more than what this life may give - if it will but I tremble when I look forward to future prospects. I am resolved to my life to the service of mankind. 

	This morning I wrote to my brother by Mr. Smith, sending a poem of forty-eight lines to the Philositorian Society and promising a composition if it would be acceptable. The poem was one which I read to the society while there but neglected to leave a copy. 
	I keep house alone for Mr. Smith. this week and it gives me a better chance for study than I could otherwise enjoy. Snow continues falling lightly. 

	Mr. Smith has just returned this evening and brought a letter from my little sister a composition of hers, some of my papers, and a few newspapers, for all of which I am very thankful. The papers contain the President's message and the reports of the Secretary of war and Postmaster General. The message has the merit of being short, simple and probably correct in general. It exhibits the country in a most prosperous state as regards money affairs. The opinions concerning the Indians is probably correct except as to their right of protection from the United States etc. 
	On the whole I think "the Hero" will get a pretty good name at his term's end, though he will never be beloved by the people. 
	Snow is melting some. 

	This is the third fair day we have had and it is very pleasant now. This has been a very stormy winter but I have generally felt pleasant amid the contending elements. 
	Mr. Smith calls on me to pray and talk religious subjects and sometimes I consent just to please the people. It is all a mere mock of sounds with me for I can no longer believe the nice speculative contradictions of our divine theologians of our age. Indeed it is a long time since I have really believed these dogmas but every examination leaves less evidence and I have about given it up. The is in our Religion neither evidene to recommend it to ourselves or benefit to recommend it to our patronage. It is recommended as a preventative to crime but provides means to escape the punishment due to any crime by teaching that repentence of our missdeeds would prevent our being punishd for them. 

	This evening we have formed a debating society in this town of which there are foumbers. I drew up the constitution and it was adopted without amendment. They gave me no offce though I was first in starting and most active forming it. This I may consider a favor though I should have liked it otherwise because I am best acquainted with the business. 
	I could speak the best in the one at home after Mr. Pearce left it and was about even with him. 
	My school is now half passed and such success as has attended it has not attended any other of which I have heard. I have not yet punished a schollar nor heard a complaint. 
	It is reported all about here that I have courted Mary Torrance, (formerly Draper) and that in the presence of her husband; with a deal of other stuff about her which I presume is generally false, though she may have given some occasion for she has kissed me a number of times and I should have returned the compliment had it not been for the consequences. I really wanted to do the other thing and believe I might have done it too by careful management if I had tried (though I believe she had a good heart) but I am somewhat inclined to a certain evil which is easier avoided than correted. I am fond of female company. 

	When I was about 15 years old I became attached to a young lady of neither prperty or character and by association the attachment becam so strong that I allmost thought her part of myself. She was about 20 years old, though she looked young: had one child but wished no more till she should be married, was of an easy disposition though not contented, fascinating in her manner though not allways agreeable, violent and vehement in the mild and agreeable passions, yet ficcle and changeable. 
	I was vigorously opposed from the first by my parents and all my best friends but the opposition was misdirected and served only to increase my attachment instead of weaken it. I began keep her company in august and I belie the principle reason in father's mind for sending me to the Academy at that time was to get me from her; but in this he failed for we corresponded during the winter, and in the spring renewed our connexions. In the course of the summer she became anxious to marry immediately, but I refused giveing encourragement to do so shortly. Under these circumstances she contracte mariage with another gentleman, but this fell through and we again renewed our connexions, and talked seriously about our wedding day. 
	But in this case as in the former she had an opportunity of marrying, and did marry the day before I was to visit her. I visited her according to appointment but she was not very thankful for the visit. She felt ashamed and confounded. Her name was Nancy Crawford. 

	This day begins the last half of my winter's work and singularly nearly half the school felt wonderfully down the throat. 

	Today I have dismissed my school for want of wood. The district are getting lazy about attending to their business. I shall not stay long at this rate; the house is exposed to taking fire; is old and rotten; belongs to everybody or nobody, having been built by individual members of the church and repaired by the district neither of which have any title to it. Unless they do better I shall not save it from danger. I think my credit is not failing yet. 

	Today I went to one meeting. I have not attended religious meetings very steady this winter, though I generally hear one discourse every week and some times two or three. 
	We have some reason to fear that our debating society will share a hard fate. 
	Mrs. Draper said she should influence Ellmore to abandon it and I fear she has succeded for I am informed he did not attend the debate last wednsday. It was not possible for me to attend. 

	There are a great many reports about Marry Torrance with several of which my name is connected (now I care no more about it than the winds blowing, though I am not used to being scandalized) flying all over the country. For this reaso I write the following account of what has happened. 
	When I first came here I went to Mr. Draper's to board. Mary was very lively and chipper, and the folks were generally fond of joking. At one time when there had been considerable light talk I joined and assisted in carrying it on. It lasted all the evening and the next day being principally devoted to Seymor on the ground of his having lost his wife, towards evening I wrote a few lines of poetry assumeing the fact that she was gone and describing his feelings on the occasion. Mary wanted this and finally agreed to give 6 pence for it. She then whispered to Seymor, and walked behind me and presently kissed me. After this she did so and sat on my lap repeatedly before the family. 
	After they got to keeping house I visited them by request, expecting to return the same evening but from their repeated solicitations concluded to stay. Shortly after this story broke out: first that I had set up with Mary, but soon after that I wished to but was refused, and sat up, some said all night alone, whereas we all went to bed in good season. These storie I mistrusted and now believe came from Mary, and retaliated by hinting something, something I knew. 

	Today I have not felt so smart as sometimes on account of a light cold. Let it go off as it came ! My constitution is growing stronger continually. 
	Our debating society has finally succeeded, and has been got thoroughly into operation. We have had three debates, one was a very sharp one, and I had the honor to carry the question allmost single handed. We have another next evening. I shall make a very little preperation for it. 
	I expect to dismiss my school soon and leave the place. The time for which I engaged is not up, but I anticipated such a close from the commencement, for the people want their boys to work in the sapworks. I made the bargain with Mr. Draper and when he feels rich he feels very rich. 
	There is no complaint against me and they offer me a good recommend. 
	Some young chaps have treated me rather indecently and I would have trained them then if they had come in the house but they were wise enough to stay away. They said if I would come out doors they would dress me, but when I went out they kept a proper distance. I wanted to train them in the house but thought it wise not to meddle out of doors. 
	I wrote home a short time since and informed my parents that there was a prospect of my coming sooner than I had expected. 
	The winter season is now nearly past and I am sorry I have not made more improvement in preparing for my great designs (of revolutionizeing governments and countrie) than I have but yet I feel as if I had gained some. 
	I am sometimes allmost discouraged as to the great matters that have so long occupied my mind. And have this winter seariously thought of marrying a young lady of moderate fortune and settleing in private life; but the dreams of empire are so thoroughly imprinted on my mind as not to be easily erased. I have everything to surmount, but if I can completely surmount my disposition to indolen I shall consider the race half run; but I have another discouragement from the fact that I never have done one great thing. 

	Today I have dismissed my school and now find myself a little more at liberty. I expect to return home shortly. The schollars all felt pretty well and I in respect gave them all handsome little presents. 

	I am yet in Randolph though I ought to be at home. I dismissed school last tuesday and since been at uncle Smith's. I expect to go tomorrow. 
	Two or three of the district are probably glad to have me go, but it is for reasons not concerning the school, for they have expressed complete satisfaction and given a recommend. I know of no displeasure except of one solitary schollar and all were very sorry when the school closed. I have not chastised a schollar this winter and yet have been rigorous in the execution of my orders - firmness and gentleness. 
	I attended the debate last monday; it was very interesting, perhaps more so to me because it was the last which I was to attend. 
	I have engaged to hold a correspondence with Mr. Crowley on religious subjects. This is a ticklish subject and needs much management in order to its success. 

	Once more I find myself in my own town and among my own friends, and with feelings of real satisfaction I again commence a renewal of my connexions. 
	I arrived in town last monday and have called most of my friends allready: the town is revolutionized in some respects very much, a dozen or twenty couple married and as many farms near home changed owners. 

	I am already beginning to neglect my diary from over much labor. I have found time to do some writing but have not yet begun the correspondence mentioned above. I expect to commence it today. 
	Last year I visited at Judge Mixer's hous often, generally spending the time principally with the girls. I have been there once since I returned to town but I shall go there less hereafter. They appear to be a little embarrassed when I have my business probably because I make no special business with them. Sylvia is the most unexceptionable girl I know. 
	The debating school in this place is all given up, but I mean to try to revive it soon. There is one established in Forestville, 

	I am 19 years old and am yet no more than a common farmer. 'Tis too bad. I ought to have been a member of Assembly or a Brigadier General before this time if I am ever to rival Cesar or Napoleon which I have sworn to. 
	In the last year I have learned all that I profess to know. That is, that I am ignorant and mankind are frail, and I do not half know that: - nevertheless I shall act upon it for time to come for my own benefit. 

	Time passes on very agreeably but with but little profit. I am at a loss what to do: sometimes I think of going into the service of the fur company; sometimes of studying the law; and sometimes of speculating either in this or some foreign country; I have even thought of an intrigue for power with foreign Prines. 
	Today our debating school is to be revived but not without opposition, for some of the common school district have appointed themselves our conscience keepers, but we are not to be driven. 
	I have not yet begun my correspondence with Mr. Crowley on account of the uncertainty of my remaining in this place. 
	This day makes just one year since I cut my foot. ‘Tis yet weak and caluced, but I can out run any of my fellows. 

	I have spent the day in trying to contrive some plan of obtaining in marriage the heir to the English Crown. 
	It is a difficult business for me, but I shall try if there is the least chance. My mind has allways been filled with dreams of royalty and power. 

	This is a flying time with me. Indeed I know not what to do. Sometimes I have almost a mind to become a priest but that i to small business for me. 
	Cursed is every man and every beast he has subjected. 

	I have neglected my writing to long. Aunt Salley James and Clarrissa C - have made us a very good visit. They were well pleased with the place. I returned with them as far as Buffalo; it was the first time I ever visited a city. I and my friends were well pleased with the place; it is in a flourishing condition. The people were taking all possible means to prevent the introduction of the Spasmodic Cholera, which has for fifteen years spread destruction on the eastern continent and has just broke out on this. 
	Jerome, son of my friend Dr. Simons, is dead having been afflicted with a long and distressing illness; he was a very amiable lad. 
	The Queen Mab and the Age of Reason have been my companions of late. Shelly is at least equal to Paine. It was not till very lately that I was able to obtain such books. So I kept before my reading. 
	I have finally concluded to study the Law next winter unless I can get better business before that time. 

	The patriot's Sabbath, the aniversary of our national Independence. Thanks to the frailties of old king George, but more to the firmness and unyielding patriotism of our own beloved leaders that whilst Greece torn with internal convulsions has permitted foreign autocrats to appoint her a king without asking her consent, whilst France is still domineered over by a bourbon tyrant and whilst the liberty of Frenchmen is a thing rather wished for than believed to exist, whilst England trembles and totters to her very foundations with the racking of internal convulsions, whilst Belgium holds her national existance only by the hated will of the tyrants, whilst the death knell of Poland is closing its sound upon our ears, and a dark dismal and bloody cloud hangs over the once beloved republicks of South America, whilst a doleful and horrid darkness overshadows almost all the earth, and the ignorant multitude pay obeisance and adoration to the cruel tyrants that oppress and rob them, we are permitted to enjoy national and civil liberty, to be our own governors and legislators and to speak and to think according to our own consciences. 
	Long may our liberty continue, may bigotry and religion cease to tramel it, may the absolute despotism which superstition has established over the minds of some work its own Cure. 
	The day was appropriately celebrated at Fayette. A procession of about 500 people marched from the village to a grove and heard an oration from Esq. Mullet. Tables were set under bowers and toasts drank and cannon fired. The young people attended a ball from 3 zzzo clock till sunrise. The bill was $2.75 per couple and amounted to about $100 on the company. This sum was sufficient to procure respectable entertainment for the whole company, purchase a handsome library of one hundred volumes with the necessary appendages and to make every person present a sharer in the benefit of it. 

	From my infancy I have been taught that mankind were totaly depraved, and my own observation and experience have demonstrated that the heart of man is an impure fountain from which bitter waters are perpetually flowing. I have long been persuaded that the depravity of man originated in his unnatural habits and when I first made that discovery I vainly believed that I had also found a cure; that if the depravity of man originated in his unnatural habits, a return to those which are natural would effect a cure; that though the cure might be slow yet it would be certain and invariable. All this I still believe, but what are our natural habits? I have searched and searched in vain. The question is yet unsurmountable, and so far as I know, or in all probability ever can know, vice, misery, and wretchedness; gold monarchy and murder; kings priests and parisites, are man's perpetual associates. My heart sickens at the thought and my whole soul shrinks with horror at the idea, and I wish that I had not been born. 
	I am a perfect atheist, but do not profess it lest I bring my father grey hair with sorrow to the grave. 

	Some time since took a resolution which I now solemnly confirm, to be a Priest, a Lawyer, a Conquerer, and a Legislator unless I find better business. 

	My head is filled with projects. I propose publishing a literary and scientifick journal and am only waiting for a printer. This is of minor importance and I wish to undertake it merely to introduce myself to the public. 
	Moreover I hope very soon to form a Literary Association and besides this I shall make an effort for a "mutual instruction military Academy" for young militia officers. By the way I am a 4th corporal after having failed of an election to a higher office. The cause of my failure was my refusal to buy men's votes with rum and I am more displeased with that than I should be with a dozen such effects. 

	Late in the evening. I have just finished a constitution for a literary society at Forestville. An Academy has lately been established there by Mr. La Hatt. 
	Allen Smith who married aunt Polly 6 or 7 years ago has just left the country, I hope forever, he having another wife. I opposed the match with unshaken firmness until opposition was vain, when, true to a maxim of mine that it is better to submit to anything than to protract dissention forever, I finally gave in my submission, but with a heavy heart and a deeprooted conviction that she had sold herself to misery. I have never had occasion to change that opinion. Her days have been spent in care and distress, and her nights in misery and mourning. He deceived her in everything that concerned her happiness, pretending to have a handsome property, he proved to be poor, pretending to be amiable, kind and affectionate, he was disagreeable, harsh and regardless. He became a minister of the Baptist denomination, preached in several churches and was very successful; what an argument for infidelity; though he always got in a jumble; and finally when he was found out went away with nearly half his property (excepting household furniture) leaving Polly with two children in poor health and less property than he received by her - more of this at another time, perhaps. 

	The commencement of winter, the emblem of life's latest stage is close at hand. Reviewing the scenes of the past summer, I have reason to know that I have made some advances towards the accomplishment of my designs but such advances will never answer to the end. 
	A scientifick and literary society has been formed in Forestville adopting the constitution writen by myself. I was elected President. The place was acceptable though unexpected. I have been careful to show my colleague that I could and should do all things myself. There will be but little opposition. 

	The new year begins in total darkness: at the commencement the sun was at antipodes, the moon had forgotten to shine on this dark faced globe, and dreary dismal clouds shut out the reflected light of distant frowning planets, while the proud stars at a more than respectful distance make us feel their conscious superiority. This is only the work of Nature: Nature never works for man alone but keeps her own unvarying course regardless of man's prayers and wishes. 
	It is never to early to begin to do well, nor is it ever late enough to excuse beginning; but yet the first day of the year is an auspicious time for commencing new plans of improvement. Yet our people generally choose this day to measure their profligacy (or to make it immeasurable). It is astonishing to observe what waste of time, talent, and money people will make for show on our common holy days. Turkey games" occurred yesterday in many places but they are degraded to mere drunken revels instead of being nurseries for marksmen. The young people generally attended balls and as the ground is muddy and the rain falling, they have no very pleasant sport in their rides at least. By careful calculation I am convinced that the expense of balls in this County will not be less than six thousand dollars - not a very small sum to pay for sport of such short continuance. 
	These are light affairs compared with others in our country and in the eastern world; the whole civilized world is verging to scenes of darkness horror and bloodshed. 
	Disunion with all the horrors of anarchy and civil war are stareing us in the face, while our people are sitting by in regardless security confident in the strength of our government and believing that our Constitution is an effectual shield against all evils, and an unfailing security of liberty and justice when corruption lurks in midnight darkness and stalks forth at noon day, when the highest officers under our constitution are engaged in the vilest frauds against government, and the people will elect to office men who declare themselves only fighting for the spoils of the vanquished. Men who know or ought to know that allmost every article of our Constitution has been violated by the highest functionaries of government time and again, and with impunity, and that all attempts to bring the offenders to justice have been laughed at by the great body of the. These things have varied as different parties were in power but not for the better. We loose by every chang and are gradually going on from bad to worse. What the end will no one knows but we have reason to anticipate the worst that any visionary has dreamed of or feared. 
	The politicks of the states south of the Potomack have allways been inclined to disunion and of those east of the Hudson, to consolidation. Those at the south belonged to the great republican party and in its early ascendency gained great influence to the total exclusion of those on the other extreme. Of course the government inclined to disunion also, or in other words there was a gradual curtailing of the powers properly belonging to the general government. On the total failure of the old federal party, and the breaking up of the republican on account of its diversity of interest and lack of opposition, the old leading chiefs of the federal retired and those who were not universally known fell in with the various parties formed of the republicans and thus gained a handsome and growing interest in the affairs of government. 
	The southern politicians viewed these things with disquietude and alarm. They knew full well that they were fast looseing in their proportion of representation: every other part of the country increasing in population faster than they, and they knew as well that their statesmen were faster looseing their portion of influence in the national councils. Every means in their power was tried to arrest the course of events but tried in vain. They anticipated failure in those attempts and busied themselves in preparing the popular mind for more desperate means when it should be their interest to make a final attempt. In the mean time they were courted by such parties as were corrupt enough to pay them for their assistance and by the Jackson party successfully. Under his administration they gained some of their former influence but his sentiments were not congenial with theirs and as soon as he saw himself strong enough without them and they saw that he never would assist them in their ultimate designs both parties gladly denounced the alliance, and the southerners prepared alone for the fatal rupture which must ruin them or the government. 
	The Tarif is the great burden of their complaint and to it they impute all the evils they are suffering from slavery, luxury and misgovernment - as well as that of producing nothing but what the southwestern planters produce in three times as large quantities with the same labour. 
	The South Carolinians take the lead in this business and hold that any state has a right to nulify laws made by congress and solemnly declared constitutional by the Supreme Court whenever such state shall deem them unconstitutional. The Legislatures of the southern states in general probably will not concur in this but it is supposed by those that observe closely that they will generally agree that a state may secede from the Union without incurring the displeasure of the general government or the other States. 
	As yet but little has been done that wears a permanent character. The Legislature of South Carolina have called a convention to consider the Tariff laws which convention declared said laws void in that state, commanded the authorities to prevent their execution and imposed a detestable test oath on officers, judges and jurors. 

	Some have entertained a hope that the violence of their proceedings would work a reaction in public sentiment and perhaps it would in this country where people are a little more considerate but I venture to predict" (and with sorrow) that this will not be the case, that there will not be a reaction and that they have taken their ground for success or ruin. 
	The President, General Jackson, has issued a proclamation informing them of the consequences which must result from such a course and declaring that the laws shall be executed and the union shall be preserved. This proclamation is very popular and people generally believe it will put an end to nulification, that the tariff will be modified, the South Carolina convention will be recalled, and will repeal the odious ordinance of nulification. But it will not be so, they will not retreat, unless they know their only alternative is submission or death. Nevertheless The Proclamation will have one good effect; that is, it will call around General Jackson all or nearly all those leaders and statesmen who have the confidence of the people in those states which have allways opposed his pretentions but which are devoted to the union. 
	The proclamation is an able state paper and as Jackson is the most popular man in the United States it will effect if any thing will. Possibly its firmness may drive the Nulifiers but its arguments will not convince them. They have run mad - the disease is epidemick and unless soon arrested in its course our government is a nulity, our liberty the liberty of the assassin, justice a mockery and perpetually changing power the only rule of right. 
	We are waiting anxiously to hear how Virginia receives the President's Proclamation. Much, perhaps the very existance of the Union depends on her course. People generally have much confidence in her but for myself I fear the very Worst. 

	I am studying the law - began 17th Dec. Esq. Fraser is my tutor. I get a lesson in Blackstone's Commentaries of about twenty pages a day. I know not what my prospects are but this much I know - I will never be a member of the bar when I am afraid of any of equal experience in the state. I should rather be the best hunter in an Indian tribe than a common place member of the New York bar. However it is useless to say what I will not be though well enough to think what I will do. So I think I will study faithfully day and night for seven years if by so doing I can make a respectable Lawyer, and if I cannot I think I will try the mercantile business. Nevertheless if called upon in a good cause I should prefer the profession of arms if I could accomodate my mind to it. 

	Just heard from Virginia - affairs go the very worst possible. The governor is a nullifier and the Legislature not much better. A committee of twenty-one have agreed to report resolutions affirming the old Virginia doctrines I believe and some new and revolting features. The Nulifiers are requested to desist in their present course, but are backed up in all their objects. The president's proclamation is condemned in severe terms - and congress is caled upon to see that the course therein contained be not followed and the doctrine plainly avows that a State has a right to secede from the union and its citizens are not guilty of treason in taking up arms against the government at the call of the state authorities. 
	It is reported also that the proclamation was very illy received in Charlston. I very much fear it will pass like the torch in the parched plains of Africa or like the quenchless fire brand in the mountains of India which sheds a gloomy light in the midst of thick surrounding darkness but to discover the spoliation of all that is beautiful in nature; the destruction of all the monuments of art; and the overwhelming ruin of the beings who rashly make it the declaration of their own destruction. 
	Our honest people are still confident in the success of the president, believing that a few hundred troops which are being sent on to Charleston will effectually protect the revenue officers and that the Nulifiers will not venture to strike the first blow. 

	We have had a debate this evening on the propriety of our government's removing the Indians without their consent." We have debates allmost every week. Our members are few but there are three faithful ones in the number. Mr. Lahatt one of our principle members has a peculiar faculty, such as I never met with in any other person, of appearing sincere and even reasonable in the greatest absurdities. He is skillful in the management of a question and is not particular as to which side he takes in a question. He is a particular friend of mine. 

	News again from the South. The president's Proclamation has rather exasperated than quelled the Nulifiers. They are proceeding in the most determined manner. Several bills for executing the ordinance of nulification are in progress in both houses of the Legislature. The governor, General Hayne, has at the request of the Legislature, issued a proclamation in answer to that of the president which is well calculated to arouse the spirits and to inspire the ardour of the people to whom it is devoted. It is a most masterly production and in a good cause it would be to its author a memorial more imperishable than a pillar of marble. 
	Why are such men to be leaders of such a party? Men who have had the highest places under our government, and the most unexceptionable places in the confidence of the people. It seems as though they were led by some blind and causeless fatality within, as though the fixed mind had foresworn its utmost purpose, and the whole soul had become the slave to objects which it knew not, and the patriot who but yesterday was pure as ether, today had murdered himself and poisoned his friends that he might ruin his country. I have regarded General Hayne as a father and only regretted that I had not a personal acquaintance, but though I will not say he is ruined, I fear his country is undone. O! curse the fatal star that shone upon his birth too brightly. But I am indulging in imagination. Our country may not be ruined. Even now the business may be settled and if not new governments may be built on the ruins of the old, perhaps securing liberty to the people and perhaps power to the tyrants. Three months may decide the contest and twenty years may not. 
	The old world has her troubles also and fears are entertained that the Belgian question may embroil all Europe in war. Great Britain and France have allready interfered in favor of Belgium and Russia and Prussia are known to view these things with disquietude and distrust. 

	Our political affairs are rather growing worse though they have not yet come to an exact crisis. The day on which the Carolina act of Nulification is to take effect is just at hand; only four days hence. 
	Congress are busily engaged on a new Tarriff bill, reducing the rate of duties to the standard of 1816, which is merely nominal. Perhaps it might have been well to have kept it at rate but it is to late now. The rate of duty on foreign merchandise was gradually increased from that time down to 1828 when it had become an effectual protection to American Manufacturers. Now an attempt is being made to suddenly reduce it to a mere nominal sum and, of course, to completely ruin those who have invested all their fortunes in manufacturing under its protection. The plan may succeed and may not. Nothing can be gained by it. The manufacturing states would suffer a complete ruin by its effect. And we of the western part of the Empire State might feed wheat to our hogs and set the girls at making linnen or doing kitchen work for 30 or 40 cents per week. 
	If reports are true the President has exposed himself to the just contempt of all the world. His proclamation was worthy the place he occupied, and was expected to draw around him a host of statesmen who had long been opposed to him. In that proclamation he told the people that the laws should be executed and the Union should be preserved; that the government authorities were not to be intimidated and that the menaces of the Nulifiers were vain and nugatory. 
	But now if we have the truth he is intimidated and is very anxious by timely and unjust concession to back out of his own ground, to yield to a snarling faction, to buy the favour of the Nulifiers at the expense of the Union, to leave the New England states the choice of secession or total ruin. 
	There is no knowing his course a day before hand. Every paper which he publishes is in a new style and his Messages to Congress would not be thought to be the same man's work. Nor does anyone pretend to believe he is the author of any of his state papers. This accounts for his published opinions being so far superior to his actions and private conversation. 

	I am getting along quite well with my study - have allready read two books of Blackstone except so far as relates to personal property. The study suits me and I think I shall continue it unless the field of battle lacks one man. War is murder. 
	We have a present prospect of a printing press in Forestville and it will, if established, be a great benefit to persons of literary and scientifick genius. The most favourable circumstance of all is that there is to be a literary paper in the commencement and already commenced in another place. 
	My friends and myself talk some of a club of odd fellows, and odd fellows we should be, for the purpose of a few wild pranks, and perhaps for publishing a quiting paper - smart business. 
	Amidst all the evls of the disturbances of our national affairs there is one consolation: that is if our government is overthrown some master spirit may form another. May I be the one. I tremble when I write but it is true. 

	The superstitious hold it waste but for myself I know of no time to good to do a good deed. 
	Yesterday I finished the two first books of Blackstone. I study about fifteen hours in a day but one half of this time is given to politicks and miscellaneous works, and I can only get about five days in a week. 
	I am not in love with any lady but respect many. 

	The President has communicated a message to both houses of Congress on the Carolina affairs, together with all the papers on the subject which he could obtain. There was some debate in Congress when these papers were submitted. Mr. Calhoun (who has resigned the office of Vice President and accepted that of Senator) made an animated speech against the President. There is no knowing how this business will end. Congress have been for some time engaged on a new tarriff bill, but it is doubtful whether it will pass. The Nullifyers wish not to have any reduction of the tarriff unless it is totally abollished. The Jackson men wish not to reduce it unless by so doing they can gain the nullifyers because they would loose their eastern strength and the manufacturing strength will not consent even to a partial reduction except to avoid a civil war. There are many members who are willing to very much reduce the tarriff merely to avoid a civil war but who will never consent to it short of an absolute pledge on the part of the leading Carolina statesmen that they will retract their position. This pledge never will be given but by absolute necessity. The political existance of Calhoun, Hayne, McDuffie, Hamilton and several others who have figured in the highest political circles depend upon their success in this undertaking. They have 140,000 gallant spirits to back them up: they are a hot headed race and they will not retract unless compelled by stern northern steel. They may compromise but they will be the gainers in such a case. They will give nothing but by force or for a chance of taking double another time. 

	I rather expect, or conjecture that Virginia will back out of her favours to Nullification a little but will stick to her old doctrines generally. She will not approve the president's Proclamation or the tarriff but will stick for the union if she can regain her former influence. North Carolina I think is rather gaining for Nullification and Georgia will probably stand strong for it if circumstances favour. Some other southern states may cast some influence that way. 
	Thinking again of all the circumstances at the latest dates I am inclined to think Congress cannot reduce the tarriff at present. Last from Washington was allmost the last of January. The tarriff bill was not near completed, powerful exertions were making to delay until Congress could get some facts to act upon: many who were willing to reduce the duties wished to know something of the effect on particular species of industry. If they proceed immediately large districts might be ruined by the operation of the law, if they delayed but three days it would be too late. The bill could not even be published in Carolina before the die would be cast. Moreover if the bill were passed it would not do to have it take effect immediately. It would ruin half our merchants to permit foreigners to run in goods of the like kind and glut the market while their present stocks are on hand. 

	On the 9th Dec. the Belgian war effectually commenced. We had the news by the first this month, How it will end is uncertain, but this much is certain, that France will shake Europe like a sail in the wind, her king will rise or fall like a meteor in the air, his chance is precarious, but the course of his people is certain. The eastern powers still stand aloof, but Prussians are making immense preparations to meet their wants. 
	O! If I was King of England I would try my fortune in the bloody field. 

	The French took Antwerp citadel the last of Dec. and since evacuated it and the Belgians have taken possession: there is again a small prospect of a general pacification in Europe. 
	With us it is different, hostilities had not at the latest dates commenced. Indeed there is no certainty as to when the crisis will come, the nullifyers are making great preparations and yet delay action. It is probable they are in hopes of getting the assistance of other states by putting on the appearance of moderation. They have twenty thousand volunteers in arms. 
	The Amaranth, a literary paper just commenced at Westfield, is to be moved to Forestville the 7th of March. This is a favourable circumstance for our literary geniuses. I hope it may give a spur to the Delphian Society. 
	It will probably be rather to religious a paper but we must do the best we can as to that. I think of writing for the paper. 
	There are a great many Deists about here and they are fast increaseing. 

	How strangely beautiful this night: 'tis the eve of my nineteenth year; and I fancy 'tis a picture of myself. The piercing red flashes of the noiseless and unseasonable lightning in the distant west: the solemn roaring of distant and eternal waters: the beautiful murmurings of a pleasant waterfall in an adjacent brook: the more than usual warmth of the season moderated by a pleasant western breeze: the unconscious darkness which mantles the whole face of heaven and veils the throne of the Spirit of Nature, spangled over by the bright radiant stars of a western sky and broken only by the distant flashings of the deep tinged lightning, conspire to make the scene solemnly beautiful, grand and majestic. Did I say I fancied the scene a picture of myself? Others may judge of me. I will not say it again, but my evening's walk was surely the journey of my past life. I was alone: the works of nature and of art surrounded me: those of art were prominent: they attracted my attention: I gazed upon them: I turned my eyes to their glimmering lights: they did not dazzle but bedim ed my eyes: I turned from them in unsatisfied silence. The beauty of the scene around me attracted my attention: the sun had hid her face beneath the western horison, and the moon was veiled in clouds far over the eastern waters: I remembered them not: but those wonders of nature which were before me caught my attention: I gazed on the stars in solemn silence: I saw darkly the work of nature all around: 'twas mysterious and unaccountable: all was majestic and grand but I understood it not and turned away and viewed the airy works of man: everything around me was deformed: beauties appeared at a distance: but like the rainbow, they were beyond my reach: but the illusion drew me on: the darkness grew thicker, the sun apeared not, nor did the moon unveil her face, even the light of the stars dazzled my eyes to blindness, so long had I gazed on the shades around me: the lightnings played vividly on the far distant horison. On a sudden it flashed brightly around: the whole scene was enlightened and for a moment the illusive works of man appeared as they were: distorted, uncouth and broken. 
	I closed my eyes with the pain at the excess of light but the images were still before me: I saw them and considered. Ah the deception was before me: I knew they were the works of art but I believed them the art of him who veils his face in light: and whose finger marks the changeless course of the stars. 
	I turned my eyes to the stars for light and the works of nature for instruction. The darkness dispelled: the shades retired: the illusive works of man disappeared" as I passed on, and the Spirit of Nature moved me with a holy inspiration. The sun had not yet appeared nor the moon arisen in the east but there was a glory in the light shades of evening, like Miltons twilight in heaven. 
	The face of nature was serenely beautiful, not an unseemly mark appeared. The human ken is short and the light of nature shone but dimly, but it was not an illusive light. These facts really occured but the allegory is my life, as relates to Science and theology. 

	This is my birthday. I arise in hope. Bright prospects are before me, but all depends on the most untiring exertion. Twenty years of my life are allready passed, and what have I done? Ah ! what have I done? Nothing! Nothing! Nothing but commenced doing. The last winter has given me a fine start. I know I have done well in my study and I believe my prospects are fine. Whether I ever shall make a first rate Lawyer or not is uncertain but my study for two years to come will be useful in business which I can follow if I do not practice that profession. Indeed in allmost any business a knowledge of the fundamental principles of law and some part of the detail is very useful if not absolutely necessary. 

	This begins the year. I am confined to labour as usual, but will be beneficial in inuring me to habits of industry: so, so far from complaining that I have no leisure, I begin to be glad that I am loaded with business. 
	My school is large and my health rather poor, but I find time to study considerable. 

	Last week my school was very full averaging seventy-five schollars. I have in all 70 writers, more than forty in Arithmetick and fifteen or twenty in Grammar and Geography each, yet I neglect none. 

	The affair with Foster whom I dismissed from school did not end without some trouble, (very agreeable trouble as far as I was concerned for I should not object to one fracas): and might not short of blood shead if I had convinced him and four or f others that I was willing to s a little. As it was I merely had to be seen with a brace of pistols, which I immediately disposed of, and when they had concluded they were on the wrong tiger track it was my turn to laugh at them for being frightened with an iron candlestick, - but another name for a pistol. 

	I have a real rest, having only about sixty schollars on an average this week. Thus far I have had a very pleasant winter, yet Mr. Smith says I tell a falsehood when I say the last year of my life was the happiest, and when I say I enjoy more happiness than I endure misery he is nearly out upon me. The difference is he is a restless Christian and I am a cool Philosopher. 

	Last evening the young gentlemen in this settlement (Smith's Mills)" went up to Rug's Settlement to attend a debate on a chalenge. They had their own question, side, presiding officer, time of meeting, place of meeting and even would not inform us the question. Not satisfied with these advantages they even would not allow us our turn in speaking and then gained the decision by crowding one presiding officer out of the chair and appointing another in his place after the discussion was closed and the officers retired, because he advised to decide against them. 

	I have been making arrangements for a splendid exhibition at the close of the school and this evening was appointed for recitation of one piece but the house was crowded with spectators and it was necessary to give way. If schollars do not care enough for instruction or spectators for exhibition to mind their own business I can save my time and money for other purposes. 

	Next week closes my school. I know not what business I shall then engage in. Day before yesterday I mailed a letter to uncle John W. James offering to go to New York as clerk for him. It is very uncertain about his wanting to engage one now. 

	Today I have been to Fredonia to purchase presents for my schollars. Night finds me the most down that I have been these three years. Indeed I am about worn out for the present. School teaching does not agree with my health generally, but this winter my labours have been intolerable. No teacher in my acquaintance ever did half so much. 

	Today I am housed up for the first time in four years except when I cut my foot. I shall be about again soon. It is not my lot to be sick long. I had my portion of that in earlier days. I have sent word to my school. They will probably have the exhibition. 
	Town meeting is at hand and I should like an election to a place which would produce a little pay and leave me at liberty to study. But there are two difficulties, first I am under age, second I am too inflexible too independent for the present dominent party. 

	Just returned from a visit to my friends in Collins. I visit very little, less than I wish to. 
	I find myself nominated on what is called the peoples ticket for Constable. There is little prospect of success yet there is nothing like trying. A nomination from the other party would better because that is stronger: for as to principle and talent there is little choice. The office is worth $300 a year and would be good exercise while studying. 

	March Town Meeting today and of all meetings for public business which I ever witnessed or heard of none equaled this for folly and corruption. Only 472 votes were polled and from these the board found more than 500 for allmost every office in town. One man who run on both tickets had 711 votes and for the office of Justice both candidates together had a still greater number. I had the most on the peoples ticket and was probably elected by a handsome majoity. Twenty-one years have not known me or law and judgment should know the board. 

	Time passes on but improvements do not allways keep pace, however I am trying what I can do in that line by again reading Law. I now read with Esq. Rathbon at Silvercreek. I would embrace other business if it offered a fair prospect but shall not neglect this for any visionary project. 
	I have not yet heard from uncle John but I do not think he will send for me. I was rather too late in writing to him, and now the pressure in the money market is so great that business is at a dead standstill. Such times have not been experienced in sixteen years and the first question on Change is not who has broke but who remains. This is in consequence of the dispute between the National administration and the United States Bank. General Jackson commenced a war upon the Bank immediately on coming into office and has continued it ever since. The deposits of publick money are removed to local Banks and the United States Bank in consequence has narrowed its business several millions while the local Banks do not increase theirs in proportion lest they should be broke in a sudden pressure. There is no doubt the United States Bank may be dispensed with and individual and publick business continue, but a proper plan has not yet been adopted and we have no prospect of one. 

	Surely this is no strange day: much like other days: the sun rose at six and goes just fast enough to set at six though if it was more independent than I am and ever have been I might think as it keeps behind clouds and winds and storms that it had a mind to play a prank and shorten or lengthen the day for my pleasure as it did for old Joshua the Robber's. Perhaps there is something ominous in the clouds and storms and bleak winds of this day. Let me summon up my wit, or, if I have none, a little invention and see what I can make of it. 

	Today I start for Randolph with David. Perhaps I shall go down to Cincinnatti on a raft. 

	I have made many changes since the last date but now I am fixed again. I did not go down the river though I engaged to and was only prevented by want of water. Neither has excess of employment caused the neglect of my journal for in no time in five years have I been so busy in doing nothing as in the last of April and first of May. When I have little to do I have no time to do anything. There is not a more abominable saying than "not too many irons in the fire." The more the better provided they are not forgotten. While cooling the first, hammer the second and heat the third. Regularity and attention only are necessary, then none will burn. 
	I am now studying law with Esq. Rathbone but my progress is rather slow. I give too much attention to farming at which I am also engaged with my father. 
	We have had a wonderful season. In February roads were dusty and some trees began to put forth leaves. Twelfth of zzzmay snow was three inches deep on the hillside. Many were planting corn but the soil suddenly became too light. The leaves of the forests were cut off and now beech timber looks as though it had been burned. 

	A miserable hot day. I am allmost melted. I have given the day to news and light reading thus far. I must now try something of another sort for by grace of God and will of man I am appointed to deliver an address on temperance" the first of July and all tell me it must be completely writen. I believe I could speak as well without writing but I shall not try it first. 

	Well my time is coming. I shall soon have to make the temperance address. Probably there have been some misgivings as to the result, but it will soon be decided. 
	Evening - it is done. After this experiment, with my experience in debating I may safely ever consider myself perfectly at home in publick speaking. 

	Today our nation commences its fifty-ninth year, but the acts of our great men shew a determination never to permit it to outlive its sixtieth. The leaders of the people are governed by a strange infatuation. Half of them would gladly sink themselves to hell and drag the whole United States with them if by that means they could come into power. 
	Jackson and his friends have waged an interminable war against the bank of the United States merely to draw the attention of the people and keep together his party while they are carrying on their corrupt measures. The opposition are perpetually contending for the bank for which they care not a cent merely because it is the only rallying point on which so many different parties can be kept together. 
	Jackson would agree to the recharter of the bank and assist to do all the evils he pretends to believe the bank cappable of, if so doing he could again be elected. 
	The opposition would abandon this bank and even establish the odious treasury bank if by that means they could come into power. 
	Finally patriotism is banished from the land and as for honesty there never was much among mankind. Politicks never ran higher than now. There may have been a deeper feeling enlisted on the election of Jefferson, but there was not so much turbulence, passion or real political exertion as now. The road of corruption was not so well known, though people may have been as much inclined to use it. 
	A slight circumstance would be sufficient to shake our government to its very centre. People have spent too much time miscalculating the value of the union, to what purpose time only can tell. The future is to be dreaded though the great split of allmost every party will probably prevent anyone's geting completely the upper hand and thus save the union when the virtue of the people would not. 

	A great man hath fallen! No! he shall never fall. 
	La Fayette is dead; but death made no conquest. He hath filled the measure of his days with righteousness and glory. He hath lived like an angel and died like a God. His spirit-stiring, patriot-animating, mortal part hath ceased to move among us: to cheer the world, and to strike chill dread and horror to its oppressors. But his memory shall live. The spirit of his greatness shall live. While there is an aspirant for liberty his early days shall inspire his soul. While a patriot exists his latest hours shall cheer him in his toil. While Liberty is a blessing to man; While greatness is an honour to nations; While tyranny is hated by the people and oppression is deprecated by the sufferers never shall his name be forgotten. Liberty, Honour, Freedom, Justice, Virtue and Glory. 
	Until all these shall perish 
	Until the stone shall crumble into dust 
	And the oak tree decay with age 
	Until streams shall cease to flow 
	And the mountain waters be dried up at their source 
	Until there be lost in the flood of age 
	Each bard and song and subject of story, 
	The stranger shall not ask "Who was the Nation's Guest?" 
	Or here dwelt the Apostle of Libe 

	Today I fairly recommence my Legal studies. As yet I have not studied in an ofce and of late my attention has been divided and much of it given to farming. I shall speedily prepare for business in Justices' courts and try to earn part of my expense. 
	Politicks are runing wild. The opposition to the administration are trying to unite under the name of Whig. The plan may succeed but if it does corruption is the order of the day. Honour and virtue can never unite men of such discordant principles in such a cause. I have just received papers from uncle James which argue strongly that he will not be sold to Whigism to suite the caprice of traitors to antimasonry. 

	Business plenty, health good and spirits high. Business for my tutor, health for myself and spirits for associates and posterity. Posterity? What have posterity to do with me? Well time shall answer. I have no trouble on that point. It is writen. Not in the Alcoran. Not in the Bible. Not in the will of the priesthood. Not in the good pleasure of him who claims the keys of heaven and earth and hell. No. Not in the secret decrees, the inscrutiable dens, the preordained determinations of a forever changing merciful and cruel creature of superstitious imagination seated high in heaven on a dazzleing and resplendent throne and gazed on by successive millions of human beings. But it is writen; writen in the constitution of nature and in the native bent and vigor of the mind. 
	The principle part of my time is bestowed on law reading and office business but I find time with all to review my school studies and am advancing a little in Algebra and commencing Geometry. Without a teacher as I always study. 

	Today my good parents go to visit brother and fetch home sister, and today I am invited to be a chief actor in a wedding and an old maid’s wedding too. Who could have thought Freellove Pearce would want me and my Wealthy to stand up with her at her marriage? What is a matter? I feel a little tickleish about too, for after paying my respects to her since last winter it will be taken for more than it is worth. But, Go ahead. I may take her at last. 

	This commenced the sickest day I ever suffered since my remembrance but now (evening) I am again smart for a sick person: that is I am able to walk about. I was taken with spasms, purgeing and vomiting. Some called it colera but I think otherwise. 

	Attend to business as usual but am weak. 

	Tomorrow the train bands meet: what noble soldiers they are, and what an officer I am: that beats my grandmother's relations. 

	Just been reading Waverly. Have read to his visit with the old tory in Scotland. It is the first Novel I ever read; and if Scott gained his popularity by writing such a work or a series of such works who could not be immortal? The last must be the best or men would not suffer the penance of reading the book. I believe he intimates in his preface that the work grows sweeter as it grows shorter. If what I have read is only a foundation for a superstructure it is well for it possesses strength without beauty; both wise let this book witness what it may. I have better writing. 

	Whig meeting at Forestville called by professed Whigs of the revolution. There was much squerming as to the manner in which names we got to the call. One was obtained by gross deception and another put down without the shadow of reason or excuse after the most positive refusal. The meeting enthusiastick but the principle actors exposed themselves to ridicule by their blunders, 

	Just heard that the Wigs had nominated Selden for Governor and Seward Lieut. The ticket will weigh down on their shoulders. 

	Contradictory reports as to the Wigs nomination. Some say it is Buel for Gov. and Seward Lieut. A tolerable ticket. Others that it is Seward for Gov. and Selden Lieut. the opposite of what we heard yesterday but no better, 

	The Wigs have nominated Seward for Governor and Stilwell for Lieut. 

	Well; the question is now answered and the Whigs have learned their fate in the Empire State. The battle of November was fought valiantly but the poor Wigs" could not stand the steady rolling fire of the Democracy Pool. Webb of $52,000 memory mourns wofully but there is no help for him now. He is so used to the majority that he cannot bear grief as some of his colabourers can. 
	What new name this party of all parties will take I know not, but they must needs have someone. They have allready disgraced allmost every name sacred to freedom and generous greatness. But they have not yet learned that great names will not save them or that the people have inteligence enough to distinguish principles without regard to name. 

	Mud and rain but no law. I have had no business yet and begin to think I shall get very little here. I only want a beginning. 

	Evening. Well no down heartedness, no horrors now. The course is commenced. The first step is taken and the road to honour or obloquy is allready tried. The result a few years will determine. The result depends much on circumstance which can never be foreknown and over which no one person can have any controll yet I fondly hope it will not be inglorious for want of exertion. The first step was easy but of very little importance. I was retained on two suits this afternoon. 

	Today for once I shed tears Aye tears of distress; of deep heartfelt distress. The halls of the British Parliament with their Libraries and their documents sacred to the freedom and the greatness of our ancestors are burnt to ashes. Those memorable Halls where first in modern ages man dared assume his dignity and assert his rights and demand protection of government: Where Kings have bowed to the majesty of the people: Where princes have begged their crowns at the choice of the people and not of right divine: Where victorious generals have received the united thanks of a great nation: Where Statesmen greater than Greece or Rome could boast and Princes more powerful than the Continent knew calmly submited their plans to the judgment of a deliberate assembly: Where plots involving the liberties of the people and the existance of the nation have been laid and deteted: Where laws have been extorted from Kings, and Parliaments dissolved by the sword are no more. Those venerable Halls speak with most manly eloquence the character and the destiny of man. The scenes of those Halls have long and frequently decided the fates of nations and empires and they, the work of successive ages and various architects, were strangely characteristick of the powers that assembled within them. But they are gone and perhaps their use may not long survive. All the works of man are destined to decay. Monuments of greatness and creations of luxury: memorials of antiquity and structures of today: palaces of Princes, Halls of Legislatures, and cells of Prisoners, all the works of art and alike the systems of intellect fall before the tooth of time. Even the soul inspiring poetry must die with the language in which it is writen. And fame, fame alone of all the productions of man's folly may survive. 

	Good heavens! I am growing misanthropick I dread the thought. What can be the secret cause? Is it the reading of fiction and overwrought scenes of life? It must be. I can think of no other reason. I will not yet read the "Dutchmans Fireside:" I have enough of that misery in the Indians revenge, Let me not know the beginning or the end of it. Burns is laid aside. His Highland Mary makes me sad: but how do I curse man's weaker passions - no, finer but stronger passions on reading of "the lass that made the bed for him." Why did the wretch tell that fatal tale so fascinatingly I have a good mind to lay by Shakspear, It is disagreable to see vice and wickedness unpunished; but to see it triumph over virtue is misery. What bitter tears did I shed over the innocent dying Desdemona? O, shall she never revive. Where is the Promethean fire which shall again warm that heart and reillume those features. Yet I venerate the mighty miserable Moor who hath done it. Who would not pity him in his terrible deliberation? Who would not in that agonizing moment when to late he learned her innocence? 

	I have allmost a mind to leave this place, go to Forestvill and learn the Latin. I am doing simply nothing. True I read very regular but what does it amount to? There is something radically wrong in my course of study or I am totally unfit for it. Besides this I am earning nothing. Perhaps I was born for poverty and disappointment but I do not believe it. I have as yet succeeded as well as could possibly be expected. True I have done nothing in all my life and am a fool yet but that is not so poorly as most have done who like me have had no oppotunities. 

	This looks like going ahead, though not quite so profitably. Last monday for the first time in my life I undertook to play a game of Checkers, and last evening I assisted in the arrangements for a New-Years Ball, and was appointed manager. Really I do not approve of balls but they are better than any substitute which would be adopted if proposed. 

	Just returned from a visit with my friends in Collins. An opposition has been started to our New-Year's ball. Let the opposition go to the Devil. So may I, if they get the best company. They have as good a right to a Ball as we but they had no right after attending our meeting of arrangements, voting for everything that was done and not even breathing a dissent, to do anything for the injury of our party. No gentleman can get up a party and then try to break it down. 

	I have rejoiced in the sunshine and smiled in the shade of another year. It is gone. I hope not lost. But it is gone in the way of the world, and passed as others have passed their days who have died in obscurity. Curse me eternally if that be my fate. I know it is in my power to make it otherwise. But to do that it may be necessary to turn back the new leaf I have been turning over. Now for the first time in my life I have ended the past and commenced the new year in a frolick. But it was a glorious frolick. Quite the more so because like everything else now a day it met with opposition. That suits me. Let the opposition have the loafers. I am satisfied with Gentlemen and Ladies. I must let this suffice for a long time. Frolicking is not the business for me to become rich or great by: thank fortune: or fate. 

	Returned from a visit at David’s yesterday. He has passed a day of Joy and Grief such as he never before knew. Wednesday he became the father of a daughter. Thursday morning Priscilla was doing well and the child appeared healthy. In half an hour it was dead. Such are the changes and disappointments of life. In the morning he awoke with gladness and his eye beamed on the face of his first born, with hope, gladness, and confidence. The sun had scarcely risen and that offspring was among those who have been but are not. Grief fell heavily upon Priscilla but I beheld its workings most sensibly in David from my very intimate knowledge of his temperment. 

	Good heavens! And the blind shall see. This morning for the first time in many years I have been able to read a word with my right eye covered;" and that a word of common print (Graham's Practice p 135 - 14th line from bottom, last word) This should be booked first of this day’s deeds. 

	"We wither from our youth, we gasp away 
	"Sick, sick; unfound the boon, unslacked the thirst 
	"Though to the last in verge of our decay, 
	"Some phantom lives such as we sought at first 
	"But all to late, so are we doubly curst. 
	"Love, fame, ambition, avarice; - ’tis the same 
	"Each idle, - and all ill, - and none the worst 
	"For all are meteors with a different name 
	"And death the sable smoke where vanishes the flame." 
	So my hopes are all blasted; yet I cannot dispair. Two months since, I had the strongest prospect of making a clear profit of eight hundred dollars in a little more than a year without neglecting my studies. Now if I can save eighty dollars by abandoning my studies it is all I can hope for, and more than I expect. I had just purchased the land on which there was a mill worth four hundred dollars the title to which would soon fail and I should have had the mill. I had also agreed for a piece of land subject to a contract, on which I was sure of making two hundred and fifty dollars. David bought the mill and I was unwilling to dispossess him and relinquished my title at cost. Father was a party to the contract on the land and on account of his personal feelings I abandoned my agreement for that. There goes six hundred and fifty dollars and a year's use of it out of my eight hundred. 
	Then I had the most sanguine hope of being elected constable where the office is worth $300, but by the opposition of one on whose support I had counted much, I lost the nomination. Then it was given me by the opposition but I would not suffer my name to run against any of our own men except one who could not vote our whole ticket. And as he contrived to get his name on part of the opposition tickets I came out 5 votes to low. 
	But still I have hopes even for that business and if I fail then I have another hope. Perhaps these hopes are but illusions keeping me from that business to which I must eventually retire, but it is not given me to dispair. There is one thing which I can do. Then I should have a small sum of money, sufficient to purchase a tract of wild land for a farm and I know I could live on, and improve that and become independant. Yet it is not a pleasant thought. My mind is not yet prepared for it, and though I should be hapy in that situation I do not covet it. I have not seen enough of the world; played enough wild pranks, nor acted my part of its contentions. I have not yet learned to desire that station which I consider most happy, nor to be satisfied with that which I consider most desirable. 
	The business I was in a week since suited me best: busy from monday morning till tuesday evening without sleeping or scarcely eating in twenty sprees, half a dozen frays, and a dozen quarrels, without injuring or being injured by any one, and for politicks, and all for the party which did not support me against the one that did! During that forty hours all was stratagem: every man I met was laying a plan to surprise some other one, and a lot of willy fellows spent a night in watching my movements all to no purpose. I succeeded in everything except one where I was betrayed by a printer. Not so with those who worked for me. Pity every one cannot do his own work. 

	Again the anniversary of my birth approaches. But I am unprepared to greet the day. Perhaps it is bad policy to linger here in continual but fruitless hope; and perhaps it is erroneous to indulge such hopes as mine: but if I now look for too much who shall look for the future? If my present aspirations are too high, I may as well abandon my future hopes; mark out a different course, and content myself to live that life which I now believe the least unhappy. But ill fortune is frequently the best fortune; and probably it may be so now. At least I am determined so to regard it so long as I have an ultimate resort. 

	It is nothing to be unsuccessful. To be disappointed in what I have expected until it has become part of my regular system is the least that I mind. Indeed I do not mind anything as though I was injured by it; and it is matter of remark and complaint with my friends that I keep up the same eternal smile and apparent satisfaction whether successful or unsuccessful. Yet that fact is probably for my happiness. I find much satisfaction in looking on the world the smooth side out, though I might prefer acting my part rather roughly. 

	Just had an opportunity to go to the State line Mills, Allegany, as a Lawyer: good mind to go: perhaps might find some speculation: at least get a little money, an article which would be very convenient at this time. But I will not start this evening. Shall be a year older tomorrow! 

	Again has rolled round that dark star which shined over my birth, though dim, too brightly. 
	"Who is he, so swiftly flying?, 
	"His career no eye can see. 
	"Who are they so early dying? 
	"From their birth, they cease to be." 
	"Ti - behold how quick his pace! 
	ments: - who can count their race?" 
	Youth is not rich in its stores of time, and middle age is soon exhausted. After, is a small sinking pool which few enjoy and less profit by. I would never be an old man though I wish to live forever. 
	Let me see. The past year has produced some advantages. It has nearly paid its expenses, and counts full time in my professional studies. Pity it was not really full time. Too much of my time has ever been given to other things. When I have made up my three years' study I shall have scarcely given up one year to the business. But what more has the year brought forth? Nothing, wothy of my rembrance, - but it has continued one thing which I will not mention though I will not forget. True in the time I have prepared for going to New Orleans; but that is not as though I had gone; at least it does not so much expose yellow fever, though it may more the rambling fever. And I have ta of going to Texas, and that is cheaper than going; but now if I could rely on half that is said in the printed descriptions of the country I would go there rather than to any other country. 
	I have neither friends, vassals, or ey. I was not born to fortune, name influene I was never the favourite of accident or chance. No man ever gave me a dollar; and if half the world should die I should not inherit land enough to 
"Cheers on the nest the mother bird 
"The ice-lock'd streams, as if they felt 
"Her touch, to liqud diamond melt; 
"Nature unbinds her wintry shroud, 
"(As the soft sunshine melts the cloud,) 
"With infant gambols sports along, 
"Bounds into youth, and soars in song; 
" - Who would not wish, unrival’d here, 
"That Spring might frolick all the year?" 
	It is beautiful; but it cannot last. If the seasons were all pleasant as this day it would smooth down our natural roughness, conquer our furious and ungoverned passions, and render man that inoffensive being, which some excellent but too sanguine writers have imagined he some day would be. 

	I must leave Silver Creek today. I am very sorry to leave the place, but to remain under preset circumstances will never do. I have been here nearly eight months; have been constantly ready to attend to business; have been uniformly successful; yet I have not in that time earned fifteen dollars. 
 
	This is a long blank in the book; but not in life. Since the last date many strange events have been jumbled together; few of which shall be booked, though few forgotten. I have now the Small Pox: down with it six days. 'Tis pretty severe. There are more than three hundred pocks on my face and all burn like fire. 

	Still housed up though rather cfortable. I feel able to work but cannot bear exercise and am covered with sores. 
	I have passed the last two days pleasantly, attended by Miss Wealthy Smith." I caught the desease while attending her. 

	The great labour is ended. All Forestville combined against me and swore my ruin for assisting David in recoveing his Mill of Brown. Three suits were commenced against me. One was discontinued and two withdrawn after making twenty dollars complained of for false swearing and the Justice who issued the warrant being a mere cypher in their hands committed but the officer refused to take me in custody and I went alone and put in bail. The Grand Jury sat the 22d. Forrestvill spit its venom in vain. Its highways and lanes and ditches were emptied to go and cry against me. All hell was raked for false witness. Young men whose beards were not grown harangued the multitude. Old sinners whose feet tremble beneath their emaciated bodies and whose eyes stare horror-struck at the gaping grave appeared in open day and pleaded jurors to perjure themselves and ruin me. Clergymen and their pious follower prayed the overwhelming vengeance of the allmighty on the heaven daring Infidel who Providence had thrown in their power. Men who have said in their hearts and spoken with their lips "There is no God" thanked fate and fortune that I should soon fall, a sacrifice to unchangeing friendship upon the shrine of their power. It is done. Eighteen of nineteen" jurors say "Not Guilty." I shall never forget the friends who were faithful at that moment. For my intention to my enemies, let the light of a future judgment reveal it. 

	Recovered of the Small Pox. Today I am out at work as usual. 

	Hard time this. Yesterday the creek raised very high endangering the works about the Mill. I worked in the water half the afternoon, some of the time completely covered and once swept off by the current. Today I have been in two hours but finally left and went to uncle Davison's to see uncle Manly James who has been there nearly Uncle John W. J. and Lady have gone to the southwest she staying a Pittsburg while he goes to Nashville. They will return this way. Uncle Manly is quite a different person from what I expected. 

	The aniversary of freedom, of the birth day of liberty has come. Aye come, but not past. I cannot praise our freedom and our fair country - Another subject - 
	They who know the most 
	Must morn the deepest over the fatal truth 
	The tree of knowledge is not that of life. 
	Philosophy and Science and the springs 
	Of wonder and the wisdom of the world 
	I have assayed and in my mind there is 
	A power to make these subject to itself 
	But they avail not: I have done men good 
	And I have met with good even among men 
	But this availed not: Good or evil, life, 
	Powers, passions, all I see in other beings 
	Have been to me as rain into the sands. 
	I have no dread 
	And feel the curse to have no natural fear 
	Nor fluttering throb that beats with hope or wishes 
	Or lurking of something on the earth. 

	Every Sunday is stormy this luckless season. However there is one good result therefrom. It keeps a fellow out of mischief. I have not been very mischievous on the Sabbath this summer. I have had too much work to attend to. Nearly everything except the money business goes wrong. That does very well. Others are growing better. We'll see how they turn. The road which never turns is longer than Satan's from hell to Earth. 

	I cannot die. If the thing was possible I should not now be among the living. Within the last six months everything short of naked swords has been tried in vain. Today accident has undertaken the work but I yet live. I know this is treating the subject too lightly; but I have met with so many difficulties and dangers and perils among false friends of late that even the elements seem as enemies to me when I am endangered by them. And it is natural to treat them with the same scorn as my living enemies when I escape them. The accident was this. I started from the head of the floom to walk on a board to some flood wood lodged in the pond for the purpose of starting it over the dam intending to return to the floom before it went over. The water was at this time higher than it was ever before known sheeting over the dam four feet. The board on which I steped (though I had several times walked it before) broke and let me in. I stoped near where I struck five or six feet down the dam. In an effort to move towards the floom I was carried to the end of the span my head reaching over. Here David reached me a board but my exertion to raise myself by that loosed me from the dam and I started over. Seeing I must go, to prevent going head foremost, I seized the end of a spar as with the convulsive grasp of death holding on until I completely turned round striking the rocks below as a bear fall from a tree, I was carried about thirty rods when I caught to a tree which had lodged in the middle of the creek. The water ran furious as a mill tail more than six feet deep and rolling like a lake in a storm. I was carried the most of the way under water yet seldom touched the bottom. I made several efforts to catch hold of objects I came near to. Once I caught to a limb I came under but it broke and I was immediately carried under a mass of flood wood and wedged down at the bottom where I remained about half a minute when by the most desperate exertions I succeeded in bringing myself out. After this I grew weak very fast until I got out. As I approached the log where I stoped I raised above water and saw indistinctly something that I hoped might be terra firma. I was immediately sucked under water when striking the rock and springing with all my might I brought one foot in contact with a log. That swung me round and I caught hold and climbed above water when I rested and got up. The next question was how I should get ashore and I directed David to go round a fall a tree from the opposite shore to me which he did in less time than anyone would immagine possible and I climbed ashore. 
	What a multitude of thoughts were crowded together in that short spase of time. Brief has been my life, for then I remembered it all. Few are my friends but none were forgotten. Few also my enemies, but it was a melancholy thought that of the most relentless I was perhaps to die unavenged. 
	Speaking of dying I may say I did not but for a moment expect to die (though I knew the chances were against me) but in that moment how did imagination picture the obsequies of my end; friends sobing around; my poor heartbroken mother sinking by my pale remains; those who in life had injured me deep as hatred could conceive or malice could invent standing in clusters round talking perhaps that the hand of God had done it, and then offering their consoling (ah! vile) assistance. I thought too that this was to be the last end of all my hopes and prospects and aspirations. To die is no dread if we are to live again; but when should the end be? I would not live forever. 

	All things appear to be in their natural channel again. Life is the same as of old, except that it has more cares. I am glad I have not a family. Yet man was formed for society. Without it he is hardly human. Every man at middle age should have about him a wife and family. 

	Again the year approaches its end. O! time, time how quickly thou fliest away. What has become of the past? I have lived allmost twenty-three years. Behind is allmost blank, while ahead is only thick darkness. Should I die now, I have lived in vain. O! the curse: to have done nothing for posterity. 

	It seems to me that's a long blank. 

	Just returned from a visit in Collins. Aunt Charlotte is no more. Attended her funeral while there. 

	Here is another blank surely - The book will last the longer. Just returned from a visit to North-East in Pennsylvania: 'tis the first time I ever was out of my native State. So wednesday, fourth of zzzmay 1836 at twelve zzzo clock I passed the bourne of my own dear, my own great New York; the great and best, the Lady Superiour of this community of Sister States. Pennsylvania zzzmay second but how greatly inferiour. Perhaps she will not allways be second, but New York must allways be first, unless the swamps of the mother of rivers rise to mid air and redeem New Orleans from the eternal pestilence. When the five millions of drowned land at the mouths of the Mississippi shall be cultivated and the enterprising Yankee may live on the banks of that mighty water without trembling at the pestilence that yet not only lurks in darkness but stalks forth at noon day; then may New York find a rival: - till then never. 
	I have had a fine visit, particularly with the Mutes. They are favour with me. Sally Hysted is very inteligent; quite smarter than ordinary ladies. 
	There is nothing permanent but change. And what strange changes there be. We are all selling out. I had rath be here than in any other place ever created but if all my friends go I shall "go to" as the great man said when he went to Babylon to make confusion. Florida is a better place and Texas best. I wish to go there but if I should Mother would cry herself to death. They need help and well deserve it. 
	In the sparking line I do a dull business. I courted an engagement with Mary P.-had two interviews and it is closed. It was a total, radical and unmitigated failure, without one redeeming circumstance. She could have done but one act more. Only informed me that when we meet again it must be as total strangers. When we meet again it will be as strangers. By heavens she is mine. I will steal her heart in an hour she thinks not. I know she can and must and will love me. I discovered from the very commencement this must miscarry, and was willing the failure should be radical. It was due to her that she sd produce it and I gave her a proper oppunit 
	
	Well I have commenced the la page with a thousand things to write no cash to purchase another book. Ho many changes have happened since I menced this little volume. Very few of them are chronicled here. 
	Pearce's family started for Root River yesterday. Benjamine has been there a year and sent for them. Good fortune betide them. They have been faithful to me: faithful to the obligations of friendship. 
	Weata has done me a twofold kindness late. It was on her introduction that I formed the engagement with Mary. Now she has procured its renewal. I did not or wish for this, prefering an entirely different course. Yet it may answer well. If it does she shall fail for once. One interview will decide. I know I shall finally conquer. 

	I am again reading law at Sil Creek. Think I shall not read there long. There is but a little business. 

	SO OLD BOOK FAREWELL.
